Studies in Educational Evaluation 88 (2026) 101566 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Studies  in Educational Evaluation 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/stueduc 
Academic  ability  generates better quality feedback: Evidence  from  PeerWise  assessments
Wanning Huang * , Jason M. Stephens , Gavin T.L. Brown 
Faculty of Arts and Education, The University of Auckland, New Zealand
A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T

Keywords:
Student generated feedback Multiple choice questions Feedback complexity PeerWise
The  provision  of feedback  by  students  to  peers  contributes  to  their  own  learning  and  performance, improves learning experiences, and enhances understanding, problem-solving, and self-assessment abilities. However, the nature  of feedback  generated by students is not  fully understood  and,  given its  ubiquity,  merits  further  inves- tigation.  In the  present  study,  undergraduate students  (N = 226)  were  asked  to  provide  feedback  on  multiple- choice  questions  they  had  created.  Each  student’s  generated  feedback  utterance  (N = 977)  was  coded  for complexity, and item response theory methods were used to eliminate non-discriminating feedback types. Five types of feedback fit the item response theory  model: verification, justification,  explication, source, and meta - cognition. Structural equation modelling indicated that students’ midterm academic performance predicted both 
the length and complexity of students’ generated feedback. The latter also predicted end-of-course performance.

1. Introduction
Feedback is information provided by an agent (e.g., instructor, peer, 
computer)  regarding  aspects  of  one’s  performance  or  understanding (Cook et al., 2013; Hattie & Timperley, 2007). Cognitive, motivational, 
and  behavioural outcomes  are all influenced  by feedback (Wisniewski 
et al., 2019). To ensure that all students receive feedback in the face of teacher  overload,  technology-enhanced feedback  has  been  widely rec- ommended  (Hepplestone  et  al.,  2011;  Parkin  et  al.,  2012;  Winstone et al., 2017). As the name suggests, technology-enhanced feedback in- volves the use of technology to generate, communicate/deliver, and/or 
enable  the  comprehension of feedback  (Huang  et  al.,  2025;  Kurvinen et al., 2020; Munshi & Deneen, 2018). In PeerWise, a system that uses technology to deliver feedback between students (Denny et al., 2008a), students create multiple-choice questions (MCQ) and give feedback by explaining  why  an  option  is right  or  wrong  (Glassey  & B¨alter,  2020). Given the heavy reliance on MCQs in higher education (Higgins et al., 2024; Malau-Aduli et al., 2014), PeerWise stands out as a widely used platform  for  MCQ-based  tasks  (Guilding  et  al.,  2021). PeerWise  offers students  opportunities  to  benefit  not  only  as  recipients—answering questions  and  receiving  feedback,  aligning  with  the  testing  effect (Rowland,  2014)—but  also  as  creators—generating  questions  and providing feedback, consistent with the generation effect (Slamecka & 
Graf,  1978).  Moreover,  generating  feedback  corresponding  to  MCQs 
encourages  self-explanation, a  crucial  and  effective  learning  strategy. Articulating and clarifying one’s understanding to others is a powerful way to construct meaning and build knowledge (Liu & Carless, 2006). Students reflectively connect new concepts to their existing knowledge, thereby  enhancing  their  own  understanding as  a  byproduct  of giving feedback (Nicol, 2012). Research on student-generated feedback corre - sponding to MCQs supports this perspective, highlighting positive out- comes  for  feedback  creators,  including  enhanced  learning,  increased motivation and positive academic emotions, improved use of cognitive and  metacognitive  strategies,  and  the  development  of perspective-taking abilities (Yu, 2019; Yu & Wu, 2020; Yu et al., 2018). However, what is not known is how good the feedback is and how the quality of student generated feedback relates to academic performance and  motivation. This  paper  contributes to  the  field  by  examining  the quality  of feedback  students  gave  to  their  peers  within  the  PeerWise system.
1.1. Quality of students’ generated feedback
Previous research has indicated that student feedback can be insuf- ficient and reflect fragmented knowledge because students are relative novices  compared  to  instructors  (Cheng  & Liang,  & Tsai,  2015;  Yu & Chen,  2021).  Students  engaged  in  generating  reviews  for  peers  must have the capacity to comprehend, analyse, and assess the work of their 

* Correspondence to: 58 Symonds Street, Grafton, Auckland 1010, New Zealand.
E-mail addresses: wanning.huang@auckland.ac.nz (W. Huang), jm.stephens@auckland.ac.nz (J.M. Stephens), gt.brown@auckland.ac.nz (G.T.L. Brown). 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.stueduc.2026.101566
Received 25 August 2024; Received in revised form 18 September 2025; Accepted 22 January 2026  
Available online 27 January 2026 
0191-491X/© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). 

W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Studies in Educational Evaluation 88 (2026) 101566 
peers  (Bürgermeister  et  al.,  2021;  Pitt  et  al.,  2020;  Topping,  1998). Consistently, several studies have found that the quality of peer assess- ment  and  peer  feedback  is not  always  satisfactory  (He  & Gao,  2023; Xiong & Schunn,  2021). When  feedback  quality  is low,  students  were less likely to benefit from either providing or receiving it (Cambre et al., 2018; Veremis et al., 2024) and less likely to revise their work (Wu & Schunn, 2020). Poor-quality feedback may even lead other students to provide low-quality feedback (Zong et al., 2022b). As such, examining the quality of feedback generated by students in practice is essential.
Despite being a central focus in peer feedback research, the defini -
tion  of  feedback  quality  remains  inconsistent.  Researchers  have  pro- posed various conceptualisations depending on the context and purpose of the feedback. For instance, Shute (2008) characterised good feedback 
as  being  specific,  timely,  and  actionable,  as  well  as  non-evaluative, supportive,  and  conducive  to  reflection.  In  contrast,  Jonsson  (2012) defined  high-quality feedback  more  broadly  as information that  helps students  understand  the  subject  matter  and  provides  guidance  for improvement. Across the literature, high-quality feedback is frequently associated with dimensions such as informativeness, specificity, clarity, usefulness,  and  timeliness  (Carless  et  al.,  2010;  Hattie  & Timperley, 2007;  Nelson  &  Schunn,  2009).  At  the  same  time,  expert-generated feedback  is  often  treated  as  the  benchmark  for  quality,  and  the  gap between  expert  and  novice  feedback  in  terms  of  both  quantity  and quality  is  well  established  (Dew  et  al.,  2009;  LaFrance,  1989;  Zhang et al., 2021). For example, teacher generated feedback corresponding to MCQs has  been  found  to  differ  significantly  from  student  generated feedback  in  several  areas,  including  types  of  explanations,  style,  and word  count  (Yu  &  Chen,  2021).  To  address  these  theoretical  and empirical  concerns, the present study operationalises feedback quality through two measurable dimensions: complexity and length, addressing 
both qualitative and quantitative aspects.
A significant  aspect  of  the  effectiveness  of  feedback  is how  much information is contained within the feedback (Wisniewski et al., 2020). This  study  focuses  on  feedback  complexity,  which  increases  as  more components are  included  in  the  feedback  (Dempsey  et  al.,  1993;  Kul- havy et al., 1985), representing its cognitive sophistication. Examples of 
such  components can  be:  providing verifiable  information and  correct answers,  pointing  out  a  wrong  response,  explaining  why  specific  re- sponses  are  correct  or  incorrect,  providing  cognitive  or  metacognitive hints or suggestions for addressing the issue, recommending a review of explanations, supplying additional guidance or background knowledge 
on a specific topic, and so on (Golke et al., 2015; Shute, 2008). Feedback containing  detailed  information  is  more  effective  than  feedback  that simply states whether a student’s work is correct (Finn et al., 2018; Van 
der  Kleij et  al.,  2015)  and  has  the  potential  to  significantly  improve students’  academic  achievements, enhance  transfer  performance, and increase intrinsic motivation (Butler et al., 2013; Lang et al., 2022; Wang 
et  al.,  2019).  Students  generally  perceive  specific  feedback  as  more valuable than brief, general feedback (Misiejuk, Wasson & Egelandsdal, 2021;  Strijbos  et  al.,  2010;  van  der  Kleij et  al.,  2012). Therefore,  it is important to understand the complexity of peer feedback and conditions 
under which students generate more complex feedback.
Various schemes for categorizing feedback exist. For instance, Kul-
havy  and  Stock  (1989) divided  feedback  into  categories  such  as knowledge of the correct response, knowledge of the incorrect response, explanations of the reasons, and hints related to the text. Shute (2008) classified  elaborated feedback  into  types  that  focus  on  addressing  the topic,  addressing  the  response,  discussing  specific  errors,  providing worked  examples,  and  giving  guidance.  However,  these  frameworks may  not  fit  student  generated  feedback  corresponding  to multiple-choice questions.
Yu (2019) explored  student  generated  feedback  in  a  system  that required  students  to  provide  individual  feedback  for  each  option  of a multiple-choice question. This framework is not entirely appropriate for student-generated feedback  in PeerWise,  which  only  allows  the  provi - sion of overall feedback (i.e., there is no “you are correct” feedback after 
the correct option, nor is there metacognitive feedback prompting the respondent to reconsider and choose again after an incorrect option). In other words, the specificity of feedback in PeerWise is relatively limited (Nelson  & Schunn,  2009).  Moreover,  due  to  the  restriction on  multi - media,  PeerWise  does  not  include  feedback  elements  such  as  emojis. Consequently,  this  study  requires  the  modification  of  conventional feedback categorisation schemes to better assess feedback complexity.
In addition to feedback complexity, the amount of feedback, such as 
the number of words in a feedback message (Patchan et al., 2016), has been shown to be significantly related to feedback quality (He & Gao, 2023; Zhang et al., 2024; Zong et al., 2022b, 2023). This correlation has 
been  validated  in  various  contexts  through  analyses  of peer  feedback data in different learning environments (Yu & Schunn, 2024), demon - strating the broader applicability of the relationship between feedback 
length  and  quality.  Shorter  feedback  may  lead  to  students  being  less willing to revise their work and may even result in misunderstandings, negatively affecting their performance and learning (Hattie & Timper -
ley, 2007; Mutch, 2003). Furthermore, receiving more useful feedback leads  to  students  providing  longer  feedback  themselves  (Zong  et  al., 2022a;  Zong  et  al.,  2022b).  Feedback  length  has  also  been  shown  to relate  to  feedback  provider  engagement (Jin  et  al.,  2024) and  subse- quent performance (Wu & Schunn, 2021; Zong et al., 2021a). Zong et al. (2021b) discovered  that  both  the  length  of  provided  feedback  and received  feedback  were  positive  predictors  of  improved  task  perfor - mance.  Additionally,  their  meta-regression  results  indicated  that providing  feedback  has  a  significantly  stronger  role  than  receiving feedback as a predictor of task performance growth. Some studies have 
even found that learning benefits are more influenced by the length of peer  feedback  rather  than  the  perceived  helpfulness  of peer  feedback (Yu & Schunn, 2023).
1.2. Contributing factors for peer feedback
Student motivation to invest time and effort or academic ability may contribute to the quality of feedback students generate (Darvishi et al., 2022). Motivation of some nature (Bong et al., 2023; Fong & Schallert, 2023)  is  needed  for  students  to  provide  feedback  to  their  peers. Achievement goal theory posits that students adopt goals or purposes for academic activities based on a combination of personal and situational factors  (Elliot  et  al.,  1999). This  theory  was  selected  over  other  moti- vational theories because it is widely used in feedback-related research and  is  considered  a  key  factor  influencing  how  students  seek  and respond  to  feedback  (Wang  & Lehman,  2021;  Winstone  et  al.,  2021). Achievement  goal  theory  has undergone  numerous  revisions  since  the seminal work of Ames and Archer (1988) on classroom goal structures 
and  Dweck  and  Leggett  (1988) on  personal  goal  orientations.  In  this study, Elliot and McGregor’s (2001) two (mastery vs. performance) by 
two  (approach  vs.  avoid)  model  of  achievement  goal  orientations  is used,  as  its  structure  has  been  validated  and  shown  to  be  superior  to various alternatives (Elliot & Murayama, 2008; Finney et al., 2004). In 
this  framework,  mastery-approach  goals  are  focused  on  developing competence  (i.e.,  improving  one’s  knowledge  or  skills),  while performance-approach goals are aimed at demonstrating competence (i. 
e.,  appearing  smart  or  able  relative  to  others);  conversely, mastery-avoidance  goals  are  concerned  with  failing  to  develop  one’s own competence, while performance-avoidance goals centre on evading 
the appearance of incompetence relative to others. Meta-analysis results have suggested a positive influence on academic performance for both mastery-approach  and  performance-approach  goals,  while  avoidance goals tend to have a negative impact on performance (Guo et al., 2023; Huang, 2012; Senko & Dawson, 2017).
Mastery  approach  goals  drive  students  to  enhance  their  under - standing  and  master  the  material  and  are  positively  associated  with autonomous  engagement  (Datu  et  al.,  2022;  Wang  et  al.,  2017)  and facilitate  processes  such  as  challenge  appraisal,  task  absorption, deep processing,  and  persistence  (Dweck,  1999).  Mastery  avoidance  goals, 
however, are more complex as they represent a mix of positive (mastery) and negative (avoidance) motivational forces (Senko & Freund, 2015). Previous studies indicate that the avoidance factor often predominates in  mastery  avoidance  goals,  resulting  in  detrimental  effects. Meta-analyses have shown that mastery avoidance goals are associated with  lower  levels  of task  interest,  achievement, cognitive  ability,  and help seeking (Baranik et al., 2010; Hulleman et al., 2010). Performance avoidance  goals  are  associated  with  self-protective  (dis)engagement, threat appraisal, inflexible processing, self-concern and anxiety (Diseth, 2011; Elliot & Hulleman, 2017), which can lead students to avoid dis- playing incompetence in front of others, such as by concealing their lack 
of  knowledge  in  PeerWise.  Conversely,  performance  approach  goals have been linked to higher academic performance directly (Durik et al., 2009) and indirectly via peer relationships (Liem et al., 2008). Based on 
the  foregoing,  we  expect  mastery  and  performance approach  goals  to enhance academic achievement and contribute positively to the quality of feedback, whereas avoidance goals were expected to exert negative effects.
Theoretically, high-quality feedback is predicated on high levels of domain  knowledge.  The  act  of  generating  feedback  necessitates  that students select and organize information from the materials (Wittrock, 
2010)  and  integrate  new  information  with  their  prior  knowledge (Fiorella & Mayer, 2016; Pilegard & Fiorella, 2016). Accordingly, pre- vious research has found a positive correlation between the expertise of 
the feedback provider and the adequacy of the feedback being provided (Dijks et  al., 2018). Additionally, feedback generated  by academically proficient  students  has  proven  more  constructive  and  demonstrated greater potential to stimulate intrinsic motivation (Strijbos et al., 2010). Conversely, student-generated feedback can also serve as a predictor of academic  performance.  Meta-regression  results  show  that  providing feedback has a significantly stronger role than receiving feedback as a predictor  of task  performance growth  (Zong  et  al.,  2021b). Moreover, the  learning  benefits  are  also  influenced  by  the  length  of  the  peer feedback provided (Yu & Schunn, 2023). Hence, we expected students 
with greater academic achievement to give more sophisticated feedback to  their  peers  and  for  such  actions  to  contribute  to  further  academic achievement.
1.3. The present investigation
Nonetheless,  questions  remain regarding  the  sources  and  effects  of the  feedback  students  give  to  their  peers.  Therefore,  two  research questions were examined in this study:
RQ 1:  What  are  the  characteristics  of  feedback  generated  by  stu- dents?  Specifically,  what  is  the  typical  complexity  and  length  of  the feedback they provide?
RQ  2:  To  what  extent  are  the  length  and  complexity  of  student- generated  feedback  associated  with  their  achievement  goal  orienta - tions and academic performance?
With  respect  to  the  latter  question,  it  was  hypothesised  that achievement goal  orientations would  have  direct  effects  on  academic performance (i.e.,  marks  earned  on  the  midterm  test  and  final  exami - nation)  and  feedback  characteristics  (i.e.,  length  and  complexity). Considering the timing of the required course experiences in this study, 
the student-generated feedback was positioned as a potential mediator between the midterm and final examinations (Fig. 1), giving insight as to causes and effects of feedback characteristics.
2. Method
2.1. Course settings
In this study, students were enrolled in an introductory educational psychology  course.  The  course  lasted  12  weeks,  and  students  were required  to  participate in  PeerWise  during  the  final  two  weeks  of the course. Students had to use the online PeerWise platform (Denny et al., 

Fig.  1. The  hypothesized  structural  model  of  motivation,  academic  perfor - mance, and students’ generated feedback in chronological order.
2008a; Denny et al., 2008b) to create MCQs and give feedback to each other in response to the MCQs that they had created. One week prior to the PeerWise assignment, students were given instructions on how to use PeerWise  and  how  to  create  MCQs (Appendix  A).  This  introduction familiarized students with the platform interface, preventing confusion for  those  who  had  not  previously  used  PeerWise.  Additionally,  the instructor  (Author  2)  briefly  covered  the  course  grading  criteria  and offered tips on writing good questions, ensuring students understood the task and expectations. The quality of the MCQs created by students was 
not  formally  evaluated  and  did  not  contribute  to  assignment  grades. Importantly,  no  explicit  guidance  was  provided  on  generating high-quality feedback, allowing students’ responses to be more natural 
and  reflective  of  typical  classroom  conditions.  The  assignment  was worth  10 % of the  student’s final  course  grade  and  consisted  of three tasks: 
1. “authoring” four MCQs (each including one correct answer and up to four distractors) with corresponding explanations (i.e., the student- generated feedback);
2. “answering” 20 or more MCQs; and
3. “assessing” the quality and difficulty of each MCQ answered.
2.2. Feedback complexity
The coding scheme for student-generated feedback was adapted from 
Yu  and  Chen  (2021) with  additional  criteria  (related  to  elaborated feedback) from Kulhavy and Stock (1989), Mason and Bruning (2001), and Narciss (2008). As detailed in Table 1, the scheme had seven cate- gories. To establish inter-coder agreement and reliability, a coder was trained  in  the  coding  procedures and  independently coded  a  random selection of 50 feedback instances (i.e., 5 % of the feedback) according 
to  the  codebook.  The  coder  held  a master’s degree  in psychology  and had relevant knowledge of research methods and statistics. The initial total agreement across all coding  was 91 %, indicating  a high  level of inter-coder agreement. Cohen’s kappa measure of inter-rater reliability (i.e., Cohen's kappa; Landis & Koch, 1977) was κ = 0.98 across the seven feedback categories. After discussion, the overall inter-coder agreement reached 94 %, and the agreement for each category ranged from 98 % to 100 %.  The  results  indicated  that  coding  of  peer  feedback  was 
trustworthy.
2.3. Participants
The  participants  were  316  undergraduate  students  from  different majors  enrolled  in  the  same  course.  Despite  being  compulsory  for coursework  credit,  seven  of  the  316  (2.2 %)  students  enrolled  in  the course did not complete the questionnaire, 74 (23.4 %) did not provide 

3 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Studies in Educational Evaluation 88 (2026) 101566 
Table 1 
Student-generated feedback coding scheme and inter-coder agreement and reliability for coding variables.
Category Description Example Inter-rater  Reliability 
Agreement (%) (Kappa)
1. Verification Identifying the correct or incorrect answer. B is the correct answer; Answer D is incorrect. 100 1.00
2. Justification Explaining the key concepts addressed in the  Transcendence is a need that comes after self-actualization at the very top of  98 0.91 question and how the correct answer aligns with  the pyramid.
the key ideas.
3. Explication Explaining how and why the selected response is  Sleeping is not a tool that mediates new patterns of thought in a socio-  100 1.00 incorrect; Giving related information. cultural context because it does not help individuals control their thoughts 
relative to the environment they are in.
4. Source Directing to specific sources of material for  Refer to page… 98 0.96 further reference
5. Example Giving examples to enhance understanding An example of this is… 98 0.66
6. Giving clues about the question to prompt  The question asks for “NOT” 100 1.00 Metacognition further thinking.
7. Emotion Providing encouraging comments Great! 100 1.00

4 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Studies in Educational Evaluation 88 (2026) 101566 
feedback  text  data  in  PeerWise,  and  three  (<1.0 %)  “did  not  sit” the midterm test or the final exam. Otherwise, no missing data were found. In addition, six students (1.9 %) were removed as multivariate outliers, resulting  in a final  sample  of 226.  As detailed  in Table  2, most  of the sample was female (63.3 %) and indicated that their first language was not English (76.5 %); however, the majority noted that their secondary schooling had been completed in English (96.0 %). Considering that the study  was  conducted  in  an  English-medium institution where  all  stu- dents  are  required  to  meet  English  language  proficiency  standards  for enrolment, and nearly all students had completed their secondary edu- cation  in  English  and  successfully  gained  university  admission,  we believe  all  participants had  sufficient  English  proficiency  to  complete the tasks. Finally, students reported majoring in a wide range of subjects, with  science  being  the  most  prevalent  (31.9 %).  To  further  evaluate whether disciplinary background influenced the model, supplementary analyses were conducted (see Appendix B).
2.4. Instruments
2.4.1. Achievement goal orientations
Students’ achievement goal orientations used a four-goal orientation inventory  related  to:  mastery-approach,  performance-approach, mastery-avoidance, and  performance-avoidance (Elliot,  1999;  Elliot  & Church,  1997). Each  subscale had three items, for a total of 12 items, with responses recorded on a 7-point rating scale ranging from not at all true of me to very true of me.
Table 2 
Demographics of participants.
Demographic Category N Percentage (%)
Gender
Male 80 35.4 % Female 143 63.3 % Diverse 3 1.3 % First Language
English 53 23.5 % Non-English 173 76.5 % Language Used to Complete Secondary Education
English 217 96.0 %, Non-English 9 4.0 % Major
Arts 39 17.3 % Science 72 31.9 % Laws 10 4.4 % Commerce 40 17.7 % Nursing 13 5.8 % Engineering 12 5.3 % Conjoint 27 11.9 % Other 13 5.8 %
2.4.2. Academic measures
The  midterm  test  was  worth  25 %  of  the  course  grade  and  was administered as a 90-minute in-class assessment consisting of two case- based essays. Students were required to answer the scenarios using the lecture and textbook material in their own words. McDonald’s Omega 
was  computed,  yielding  a  value  of  0.87,  which  indicates  strong  reli- ability. The final exam was worth 40 % of the course grade and consisted 
of five matching questions, 50 multiple-choice questions, five fill-in-the- blank questions, and two short-answer essay questions. All the questions were  based  on  the  textbook  and  lectures,  evenly  distributed  across different chapters, ensuring a high alignment between the taught con- tent  and  the  assessed  material.  The  overall  reliability  was  high  (ω =0.91).
2.4.3. Feedback length
The  length  of feedback  generated  was  determined by counting  the total number of words after excluding stop words and punctuation, using the  stopwords package  (Benoit et  al., 2021) in R. When examining the relationship  between  feedback  length  and  other  variables  within  the structural equation modelling (SEM) model, the median feedback length was  used  instead  of the  mean.  This  decision  was  made  because  most students wrote four questions, and a representative value was needed for each student. Given that the mean is more susceptible to extreme values, which could distort the overall distribution, the median provides a more reliable  measure  of central  tendency,  ensuring  a more  accurate  repre - sentation of typical feedback length.
2.5. Data analysis
2.5.1. Feedback complexity
Each  feedback  instance  was  coded  to  indicate  whether  the  seven feedback  categories  were  present  (i.e.,  0 = absent,  1 = present).  Each 
feedback  statement  could  reflect  more  than  one  category.  But  in  all cases,  the  binary  score  indicates  the  presence  or  absence,  not  the  fre- quency  of  each  category  type.  To  establish  unidimensionality  of  the feedback categories, confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was conducted 
using lavaan in R (Rosseel, 2012) with the DWLS (Diagonally Weighted Least Squares) estimator to account for the dichotomous nature of the variables.  Additionally,  local  independence was  established  using  Yen (1993)’s Q3 statistic, where items with residual correlations exceeding 0.2  are  considered  to  be  in  violation  of  the  local  independence assumption.  A  single-factor  model  was  accepted  if  robust  CFI  and gamma  hat  > .90,  robust  RMSEA and  SRMR < .08,  and  the  normed chi-square statistic was statistically nonsignificant (p > .05) (Fan & Sivo, 2007).
IRT analysis  converted  the  binary  categorical  coding  (0 = absent, 1 = present) of the feedback categories into a continuous scale based on the presumption of a latent trait score for feedback complexity. IRT item parameters and student scores were determined using the mirt package 
Table 3 
Frequencies and proportions of feedback types and solo occurrences.
Count Percentage  Solo  Solo Count / Count Rate 
(%) Count (%)
Verification 320 32.75 3 0.94 Justification 828 84.75 300 36.23 Explication 429 43.91 47 10.96 Source 293 29.99 25 8.53 Example 67 6.86 0 0.00 Metacognition 22 2.25 0 0.00 Emotion 8 0.82 0 0.00
(Chalmers,  2012)  in  R.  Following  parameter  estimation,  a  feedback complexity score was given to each feedback (M = 0, SD = 1) based on 
the  weighted  complexity  of feedback  utterances. The  median  value  of theta  across  the  feedback  given  for  the  four  questions  was  used  to minimise the impact of extreme values on the mean.
2.5.2. Structural equation modelling
To  relate  the  feedback  quality  scores  to  responses  from  the  other instruments,  SEM was  used.  SEM analysis  were  performed  using  R package lavaan. A measurement model for the four achievement goals (i. 
e.,  mastery-approach,  mastery-avoidance,  performance-approach,  and performance-avoidance)  was  tested  within  CFA.  Then,  a  structural equation model based on Fig. 1 was developed to reflect the longitudinal nature of the data collection. Unlike traditional multivariate techniques 
such as regression, SEM takes into account measurement error, enabling researchers to assess the fit between a theoretical model and the sample 
data  (Hair  et  al.,  2019).  A  four-factor  inter-correlated  model  for achievement  goals  was  regressed  onto  the  mid-term  and  final  exam scores  and  onto the  feedback complexity  and length  scores. Given the chronological sequence of administration, the feedback complexity and 
length  scores  mediated  the  mid-term  and  final  exam  scores,  meaning mid-term  performance  was  regressed  onto  feedback  scores  which themselves  were  regressed  onto  final  exam  scores.  Package  semTools (Schoemann  & Jorgensen,  2021) was  used  to  report  several  model  fit indicator measures.
3. Results
3.1. Descriptive statistics

Fig. 3. Item characteristics curves of seven items model.
instances, as well as the frequency and proportion of those that appeared independently. Among the 977 feedback instances, Justification was the most  frequently  occurring  category,  appearing  in  over  80 %  of  the feedback,  and  occurring  independently in  36 % of the  cases.  In other instances, it co-occurred with other categories. Apart from Justification, students were more inclined to generate Explication, Verification, and Source information. In contrast, Example, Metacognition, and Emotion were  infrequent  in  student-generated  feedback.  Notably,  these  three types  of  information  never  appeared  independently  but  always  co- occurred with other categories.
3.1.2. Feedback length
The average length for the 977 feedback statements was 30.37 words 
(Fig.  2),  with  a  median  of  23.00  words  (SD = 22.92).  Although  the skewness was 1.940 and the kurtosis was 6.053, these did not invalidate their  use  within  the  subsequent  structural  equation  modelling  (Kim, 
2013; West et al., 1995).
Table 4 
Estimated discrimination and difficulty of five items model.
Characteristic Discrimination Difficulty

5 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Studies in Educational Evaluation 88 (2026) 101566 
3.1.1. Feedback complexity Explication 9.561 0.163 Among the students who participated in the PeerWise task, the ma- Verification 0.960 0.893
Justification -0.947 2.109
jority  created  four  MCQs as  instructed.  However,  a  small  proportion  Metacognition 2.029 2.695 (9 %) had generated either more  or fewer questions. The final dataset  Source 0.230 3.732 included 977 valid feedback instances. Table 3 presents the frequency  Note. Items ordered by IRT difficulty score.
and  proportion of each  category  of information found  in  all  feedback 

Fig. 2. Feedback length frequency bar chart.

 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Studies in Educational Evaluation 88 (2026) 101566 

Fig. 4. Item characteristics curves of five items model.
3.2. Inferential statistics
3.2.1. Item response theory analysis
The results of the seven-item CFA indicated that the unidimensional assumption demonstrated reasonable fit overall, but certain fit indices did not fully meet the recommended thresholds: (χ2 =53.67, df =14; χ2/ df =3.83, p = .05; CFI=.85; gamma hat=.99; RMSEA=.054, 90 % CI = [.039,.070];  SRMR=.038).  Meanwhile,  the  IRT  model  for  the  seven items  indicated  that  two  items  (i.e.,  Example  and  Emotion)  should  be removed because their Item Characteristic Curves (ICCs) did not achieve 
a probability of 0.5 and did not change significantly with varying levels of ability (see Fig. 3). Hence, a five-item unidimensional set was used in further analysis.
The CFA of five items model had a good fit (χ2 =14.71, df = 5; χ2/df 
= 2.94, p = .09; CFI =.96; gamma hat = 1.00; RMSEA =.045, 90 % CI = [.019,.072]; SRMR =.031), confirming high correspondence to the data. All five  items  exhibited  local  independence  because  no  Q3  weighted statistic exceeded 0.2 (see Appendix C). The two-parameter logistic IRT 
model  (i.e.,  discrimination and  difficulty)  had  a much  better  fit (χ2  = 18.23; RMSEA =.052, 95 % CI [.028,.079]; SRMR =.042; CFI =.94) than 
the  one-parameter  Rasch  (i.e.,  difficulty  only)  model  (χ2  = 232.51; RMSEA =.160, 95 % CI [.142,.177]; SRMR =.152; CFI =.04). Therefore, 
feedback  complexity  scores  were  determined using  a  unidimensional, two-parameter logistic model containing five items.
The  feedback  category  parameters  (i.e.,  discrimination  and  diffi- culty) are shown in Table 4.
Fig.  4 gives  the  item  characteristic  curves  for  these  five  feedback categories. ‘Justification’ had an inverse discrimination, indicating that as overall feedback complexity increased, the probability of giving this kind  of  feedback  substantially  decreased.  In  contrast,  the  other  four variables  had  positive  discrimination  and  difficulty  scores  above  the 

Fig.  5. The  SEM model  results. Note: ***p < .001,  **p < .01,  *p < .05;  Paths with  non-statistically  significant  associations  (p ≥ .05)  are  shown  with 
dashed lines.
mean, indicating that as feedback complexity increased, students were more likely to provide these types of feedback.
3.2.2. Confirmatory factor analysis for measurement model
The  four-factor  inter-correlated  measurement  model  for  achieve - ment goals had a good fit to the model (χ2 = 91.84; df = 48; χ2/df = 1.91, 
p = .17;  CFI =.95;  gamma  hat  =.97;  RMSEA =.064,  90 % CI = [.044 
  .083];  SRMR =.055).  Appendix  D includes  the  standardized  factor 
loading results of the CFA measurement model.
3.2.3. Structural equation modelling analysis
Hancock and Feng’s (2025) nmax calculator was applied to evaluate whether the sample size was sufficient for SEM. Assuming a minimum standardized path coefficient of γ = 0.20 and moderate multicollinearity among predictors (ρc = 0.30), the required minimum sample size was 
213,  indicating  that  the  current  study’s  sample  (N = 226)  was 
adequately powered to detect the hypothesized effects.
The structural model (Fig. 5) had acceptable to good fit with the data 
(χ2 = 124.38; df = 80; χ2/df = 1.56, p = 0.21; CFI =.96; gamma hat =
0.98;  RMSEA =.050,  90 %  CI = [.032    .066];  SRMR =.051).  Only students’ performance-approach  goals  had  statistically  significant  as- sociations  with  midterm  test  and  final  exam.  None  of the  motivation factors had statistically significant loadings on feedback characteristics. 
Only  performance on  the midterm  test  had  a small  effect  on feedback complexity  (R2  =.13)  and  a  moderate  effect  on  feedback  length  (R2 
=.16), suggesting more academically able students generated both more feedback and of a more complex nature. The complexity of feedback was positively correlated with its length, suggesting that longer feedback is required to create more complex feedback.
However, only feedback complexity contributed a small amount to 
final  exam  performance  (β  =.13),  whereas  final  exam  performance depended  strongly on prior  academic performance (β =.54). Nonethe -
less, as expected students with greater academic performance gave more complex  feedback  and  that  process  contributed to  greater  subsequent academic performance. Appendix E presents the standardized path co- efficients along with their corresponding confidence intervals. Supple - mentary analyses examining disciplinary background effects (Appendix B) indicated that the key structural paths remained stable across groups.
4. Discussion
Educators and students alike have embraced the concept and prac- tice of learner-generated content to enhance engagement and achieve - ment  (Doyle  et  al.,  2021;  Lambert  et  al.,  2023;  Lambert  et  al.,  2017). Among  the  various  possible  forms,  generating  assessment  items  has demonstrated significant  success  in  promoting  learning  (Aflalo,  2021; Denny et al., 2008a; Fu-Yun & Chun-Ping, 2012). Moreover, generating feedback and explanations has been proven beneficial for students’ deep understanding (Fiorella & Mayer, 2014; Killingsworth et al., 2015; Ryoo 
& Linn,  2014).  Building  on  this  line  of  research,  the  present  study investigated the quality of student-generated feedback and the extent to which it was influenced by students’ academic ability and motivation. The  coding  of feedback  statements followed  a  revised  framework  for classifying the nature of each statement. Item response theory analysis established the relative difficulty of the feedback categories. Structural equation modelling linked self-reported achievement motivations with academic  performance  at  mid-term  and  end-of-course,  and  to  the amount and complexity of feedback given by students to their peers.
4.1. The quality of students’ generated feedback
4.1.1. Characteristics of students’ generated feedback
Rather  than  treating  feedback  as  a  holistic  construct,  this  study unpacked the nature of feedback and identified that it consists of mul- tiple kinds of information with distinct characteristics. More than half of the students generated feedback that contained more than one type of 
feedback, indicating that most students possess the motivation and ca- pacity  to  provide  diverse  kinds  of information. Verification,  justifica - tion,  and  explication  emerged  as  the  most  prevalent  categories—a finding  that  is  not  surprising,  as  these  categories  are  typical  of  task- related  feedback  (Cheng  & Liang,  & Tsai,  2015;  Harris  et  al.,  2015; Hattie & Timperley, 2007).
Contrary  to  previous  studies  suggesting  that  students  tend  to generate more emotional feedback (Cho et al., 2006; Mulliner & Tucker, 2017; Yu & Chen, 2021), this study found almost no emotional feedback. 
As expected,  there  was  also  comparatively  little  peer  metacognitive feedback (Harris et al., 2015). These findings may be largely attributable 
to the design of the PeerWise system. First, students in this study were providing feedback specifically for MCQs, rather than offering general, overall feedback on peers’ work. In PeerWise, students prepared explicit feedback  about  their  question  without  consideration  of  who  might attempt  their  question.  Furthermore,  given  the  anonymous  nature  of interaction in PeerWise, feedback givers did not know what the question answerer’s metacognitive or self-regulatory state was and so could not generate  that  level  or  type  of  feedback  (Hattie  & Timperley,  2007). Hence, by design the transactional nature of feedback and the need for affective expressions to protect ego or relationships was not needed, nor 
was  there  much  need  for  metacognitive feedback.  Additionally,  Peer- Wise only allows the generation of textual feedback rather than multi - media feedback in various forms, which may have allowed more self or relational  feedback  by  incorporating  emoticons  or  audio-visual  mes- sages (Cheng & Hou, 2015; Lu & Law, 2012).
Under these conditions, most of the feedback was concise (median = 23 words). Given the nature of the task (i.e., read, answer, and comment on  an  MCQ item),  this  brevity  seems  natural.  In  studies  of  students’ generated feedback on peer work the average length ranged from 20 to 60 words (Zong et al., 2023). Similarly, comparable conciseness in the length of teacher and peer feedback in MCQ tasks has been observed (Yu 
& Chen,  2021).  The  anonymity  of  the  system  may  have  further contributed  to  this  brevity,  as  anonymity  influences  how  students engage  with  the  feedback  process  (Lin,  2018;  Rotsaert  et  al.,  2018), potentially leading  to  reduced  effort  if students  feel  that  their  contri -
butions are not personally attributed.
4.1.2. Insights from item response analysis results
The IRT analysis established that there was a hierarchy of feedback codes moving from frequent to relatively rare. Two codes were removed for lack of discrimination and very low occurrence (i.e., “example” and “emotion”). This reinforces the irrelevance of emotional feedback within 
the  PeerWise  context.  Although  “examples”  help  feedback  impact learning  or  performance  (Gick  &  Holyoak,  1980),  it  was  excluded, perhaps because most MCQ items did not need further exemplification, given  that  students  had  already  studied  these  concepts  thoroughly in class. Thus, the “example” category was fundamentally irrelevant as an indicator of feedback quality.
The  remaining  feedback  codes  all  yielded  satisfactory  results  for discrimination and  difficulty.  The  rapid  increase  in  the  probability of “explication” at the mean of the scale indicates that it is a key predictor 
of  students’  ability  to  generate  quality  feedback.  In  contrast,  the declining probability of “justification” points to this type of feedback as relatively unimportant for high-quality feedback. It seems (Fig. 5) that students  with  greater  academic  ability  are  inclined  to  generate  more challenging  and  complex  feedback,  rather  than  just  “justification”. “Metacognitive” feedback had the highest difficulty, showing that it is a difficult  kind  of feedback  to  generate  in this  context,  and  perhaps  the most demanding type of feedback to create (Goctu, 2017; Ramadhanti & Yanda,  2021).  The  IRT model  shows,  unlike  the  CFA model,  that  the nature of feedback involves not just several feedback types, but also the ability to move beyond justification to explication, verification, source, 
and metacognition.
The  IRT results  identified  the  characteristics  of  high-quality  feed- back, providing support for previous research on feedback literacy and 
descriptive feedback, which emphasizes that proficient students should generate  feedback  that  is  content-relevant,  realistic,  specific,  and detailed  (Little  et  al.,  2025). However,  this  study  further  refines  what descriptive  feedback  means  by  identifying  the  distinct  types  of infor- mation  that  it  contains  within  the  context  of MCQ-based  tasks.  These types are not equal in weight; some categories are more critical, more powerful, and less frequently produced than others. The most effective feedback  is  marked  by  the  synergy  of  explication,  verification,  and metacognition,  which  only  the  most  academically  capable  students tended to produce. In contrast, weaker feedback typically includes only justification, without  the  depth  and  integration seen  in higher-quality responses.  This  finding  can  be  extended  to  other  MCQ-based  systems, such as RiPPLE (Khosravi et al., 2019), to gain a deeper understanding of 
the feedback generated by students on these platforms.
4.2. Relating feedback to goals and performance
The well-fitting partial mediation model showed that the quality of feedback  generated  by  students  was  directly  related  to  their  course knowledge (as assessed by the midterm test), while their  performance approach goal orientation only indirectly contributed to the quality of feedback  through  contributing  to  mid-term  test  performance.  This finding is consistent with the literature, which indicates that students’ performance approach  goals  contribute to  improved  academic  perfor - mance (Harackiewicz et al., 2002; Hulleman et al., 2010), and which, in 
turn, affects the feedback they generate (Alqassab et al., 2018; Strijbos et al., 2010).
Otherwise,  goal  orientations had  no  statistically  significant  contri - bution  to  performance  or  feedback  characteristics.  It  may  be  that because  the  activity  of  generating  feedback  was  itself  non-credit bearing,  students’ achievement goals  did  not  matter  to  the  quality  of feedback.  The  current  model  suggests  that  greater  academic  ability mattered, hinting at the power of general intelligence, rather than goal motivation. The context of this study is computer-mediated rather than face-to-face,  which  may  have  discouraged  longer  feedback  contribu - tions. Lin (2020) has found that in face-to-face collaborative tasks, stu-
dents  with  higher  mastery  goal  orientation  tend  to  produce  longer reports  compared  to  those  with  lower  mastery  goal  orientation. How- ever,  in  computer-mediated  environments,  the  length  of  reports  for these two groups of students was approximately the same.
The complexity of feedback was created, in part, by mid-term per- formance and contributed, in a small way, to final exam performance. Previous  research has indicated that feedback quality is influenced by students’ domain  knowledge  (Patchan  & Schunn,  2015),  with  a  high level  of  knowledge  being  a  prerequisite  for  generating  high-quality feedback (Tornwall et al., 2021). Conversely, a lack of domain-specific knowledge  or  competence  can  impede  students’ ability  to  effectively deliver peer feedback (Panadero, 2016). Alqassab et al. (2018) suggest 
that,  despite  the  use  of  instructional  scaffolds  in  training,  offering higher-level peer feedback appears to be challenging for students with limited domain knowledge. They discovered that improvement in peer feedback  was  observed  only  among  students  with  moderate  to  high levels of domain knowledge following the training.
Feedback  complexity  was  associated  with  academic  performance, but  the  length  of  feedback  only  related  to  mid-term  grades.  The contribution of mid-term test scores on the length of feedback is similar 
to the results of Cho et al. (2006) who reported that more academically able  feedback  providers  (i.e.,  instructors and  graduate  students)  gave more information, leading to longer feedback. The absence of a mean -
ingful path from feedback length to the final exam may simply lie in the weak  relationship between  assignment  performance and  final  summa - tive grades (Kim et al., 2022). Additionally, some students might choose 
to  invest  less  time  in  participating  in  PeerWise  activities  to  dedicate more effort to preparing for the final exam. Given the proximity of the PeerWise task and the final exam, students may have opted to focus on preparation for the exam two weeks later.
5. Study limitations and future research
Despite the contributions of this study, several limitations should be 
acknowledged,  each  providing  avenues  for  future  research.  First,  the study  relied  on  a  volunteer  sample  from  a  single  course,  which  may constrain the generalizability of the findings. Nevertheless,  several as-
pects  suggest  that  the  results  have  broader  theoretical relevance.  The course focused on general principles of learning rather than discipline- specific  content, so students did not require  prior expertise to benefit. 
The  sample  was  also  diverse,  encompassing  a  wide  range  of  majors. Although the structural relationships in the SEM appeared robust, stu- dents’  disciplinary  background  did  influence  certain  latent  variables. Future  research  could  strengthen  external  validity  by  replicating  the study across multiple courses, institutions, and cultural contexts.
Secondly,  this  study  did  not  control  for  several  individual  charac - teristics  that  could  influence  feedback  quality.  For  instance,  students’ prior experience with similar tasks or platforms, such as those who may 
have previously used PeerWise or even completed the same task, could have  had  an  advantage in  familiarity  compared  to  others,  potentially affecting the quality of feedback they provided. Their prior experience 
might also have influenced their engagement with the feedback (Espasa et  al.,  2022;  Zong  et  al.,  2023).  Additionally,  other  well-established factors,  including  gender,  epistemic  beliefs,  self-regulated  learning skills, and conceptions of feedback, are known to influence how students engage  in  the  feedback  process  (Brown  et  al.,  2016;  Gao  et  al.,  2023; Ocampo  et  al.,  2024;  Panadero  & Lipnevich,  2022).  Future  research should systematically assess and control for these individual differences 
to  more  precisely  identify  the  mechanisms  that  drive  variations  in feedback quality.
Third,  the  PeerWise  platform  does  not  display  students’  names, meaning both the giver and recipient of feedback remain anonymous. As discussed earlier, anonymity may lead to reduced effort from students; however, it can also encourage valid and constructive feedback. Future experimental  research  could  manipulate  anonymity  to  better  under - stand its role in shaping feedback behaviours (e.g., Vanderhoven et al., 2015). Fourth, examining the impact of different feedback categories on students as feedback creators and receivers is an important direction for future  research.  Specifically,  it  would  be  valuable  to  examine  how various types of feedback—such as verification, corrective, explication, 
or metacognition—impact students’  learning gains, particularly across different levels of prior knowledge. Understanding these dynamics could offer  insights  into  how  feedback  can  be  tailored  to  enhance  learning outcomes for diverse student groups.
Finally, aligned with the research objectives, we used only a portion of the data generated during students’  learning processes. The remain -
ing  data  holds  significant  research  potential;  future  researchers could explore  areas  such  as  the  quality  of student-generated questions,  stu- dents’  evaluations of the quality and difficulty of peer-generated ques- tions, time spent creating items, success in answering a random selection 
of items and students’ performance on other course tasks. Prior research has  shown  that  these  factors  may  influence  learning  outcomes  and feedback  implementation (Misiejuk & Wasson,  2021;  Yu & Su, 2015). Future work should leverage the full range of available process data to construct  a  more  comprehensive  picture  of  peer  engagement  and  its impact  on  academic  performance.  Additionally,  further  investigation into  other  characteristics  of  student-generated  feedback,  such  as  its actionability  and  specificity,  presents  valuable  directions  for  future research.
6. Conclusion
This  study  identified  five  characteristics  of  increasingly  higher- quality feedback and finds that  such feedback is partly a consequence of greater academic ability. This suggests good feedback depends on the competence  of  the  domain  for  which  feedback  is  sought.  A  key  to developing  a  greater  ability  to  give  complex,  insightful  feedback  is greater  competence in  the  domain.  The  result  also  indicates  that  stu- dents who provide more complex feedback perform better on the final exam,  though  the  effect  is modest  compared  to  other  factors,  such  as prior academic performance, which play a more substantial role. Rather than  focusing  on  building  student  skills  with  feedback  (Little  et  al., 2024)  or  achievement  motivation,  it  seems  students  and  instructors should focus on building student knowledge in the domain before asking students to generate feedback.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Stephens Jason Michael: Writing – review & editing, Supervision, Methodology,  Investigation,  Conceptualization.  Wanning  Huang: Writing  –  review  &  editing,  Writing  –  original  draft,  Methodology, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. Brown Gavin Thomas Lumsden: Writing  –  review  &  editing,  Supervision,  Methodology, Conceptualization.
Ethical statement
This  research  involved  secondary  analysis  of  previously  collected data,  and  all  participants remained  anonymous. Ethical  approval  was granted by University of Auckland Human Participants Ethics Commit -
tee  (approval  number:  UAHPEC25444)  and  all  procedures  were  con- ducted in accordance with the ethical standards.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

8 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Studies in Educational Evaluation 88 (2026) 101566 
Appendix A. Instructional Slides for Supporting Teaching
Appendix A provides the instructional slides used by the teacher to introduce the PeerWise task in class before its commencement. 


Appendix B. Additional Analyses Regarding Disciplinary Background
To examine potential effects of students’ disciplinary backgrounds on the SEM results, we conducted several supplementary analyses.
To capture  broad  disciplinary  differences,  we  aggregated students’ majors  into  two  domains:  STEM (Science,  Technology,  Engineering,  and Medicine; n = 97) and CABLE (Creative Arts, Business, Law, and Education; n = 129) (Chen, 2013; Eccles & Wang, 2016).
Inclusion of major as a predictor in SEM
We included major as a dummy-coded variable in the SEM as an outermost predictor influencing all latent variables. Model fit before including 
major was: χ2 = 124.38; df = 80; χ2/df = 1.56, p = 0.21; CFI = .96; gamma hat = 0.98; RMSEA = .050, 90 % CI = [.032   .066]; SRMR = .051. After 
including major, model fit was slightly reduced: χ2 = 211.00; df = 98; χ2/df = 2.15, p = 0.14; CFI = .90; gamma hat = 0.86; RMSEA = .071, 90 % CI 
= [.058   .085]; SRMR = .099.
The results showed that STEM students reported slightly higher mastery-approach (β = 0.18, p = 0.024) and performance-approach (β = 0.15, p = 0.026) goals, whereas differences in avoidance goals were  not significant. Importantly, the key structural paths remained largely unchanged. Specifically, the paths from performance-approach goals to midterm test (β = 0.336, p < 0.001), performance-approach goals to final exam (β = 0.121, p = 0.037), midterm test to exam (β = 0.527, p < 0.001), feedback complexity to exam (β = 0.137, p = 0.026), midterm test to feedback complexity (β 
= 0.330, p < 0.001) and midterm test to feedback length (β = 0.302, p < 0.001) all remained stable.
Multi-group SEM and dMACS analysis
We conducted multi-group SEM to test whether the structural relationships held across STEM and CABLE students. Metric invariance was sup- ported (ΔCFI = 0.002, ΔRMSEA = 0.005, p = 0.259), whereas scalar invariance was not (ΔCFI = 0.014, ΔRMSEA < 0.001, p = 0.008). Comparing structural paths under metric invariance indicated that all paths remained stable across groups (ΔCFI = 0.004, ΔRMSEA = 0.043, p = 0.225).
Additionally, a dMACS analysis following metric invariance revealed that at the latent level, values for mastery-approach, performance-approach, and mastery-avoidance goals ranged from 0.36 to 1.22, whereas performance-avoidance goal was 0.046. At the item level, two items from mastery- approach  and  two  items  from  performance-approach exceeded  0.2.  These  findings  indicate  that  motivation  levels  differ  across  STEM and  CABLE students, consistent with the SEM results including major as a dummy-coded predictor.
Conclusion
Despite  observable  differences  in  latent  means  between  STEM and  CABLE students,  the  main  SEM results  are  not  substantially influenced  by disciplinary background. These supplementary analyses provide additional support for the robustness of our primary findings.
Appendix C. Q3 Weighted from a Uni-dimensional IRT Model for the Analysed Five Feedback Categories Items
Appendix C displays the Average Residual Correlations (Q3) weighted correlation matrix for the analysed items from a unidimensional IRT model.
 
                                    Verification                             Justification                             Explication                             Source                             Metacognition
  Verification Justification        1 0.145 -0.182 0.081 -0.072              1 0.162 -0.033 0.003                      1 -0.134 -0.197                         1 0.007                            1
   Explication Source
   Metacognition
Appendix D. Standardized Factor Loadings and 95 % CIs for the CFA Measurement Model
Appendix D contains the standardized factor loadings and the corresponding 95 % confidence intervals (CIs) for the CFA measurement model.
 
          Factors                                             Items                           Standardized Loadings                                 95 % CI Lower                               95 % CI Upper
          Mastery-approach goal                               1                               0.604                                                 0.472                                       0.736
                                                              2                               0.593                                                 0.465                                       0.721
                                                              3                               0.768                                                 0.640                                       0.897
          Performance-approach goal                           1                               0.814                                                 0.762                                       0.867
                                                              2                               0.896                                                 0.856                                       0.936
                                                              3                               0.904                                                 0.866                                       0.943
          Mastery-avoidance goal                              1                               0.590                                                 0.471                                       0.710
                                                              2                               0.759                                                 0.636                                       0.882
                                                              3                               0.660                                                 0.539                                       0.781
          Performance-avoidance goal                          1                               0.525                                                 0.391                                       0.660
                                                              2                               0.728                                                 0.594                                       0.862
                                                              3                               0.582                                                 0.448                                       0.715
Appendix E. Standardised Regression Path Coefficients and Hypotheses Results
Appendix E presents the standardized path coefficients for all paths in the SEM model, along with their corresponding confidence intervals.
Independent Variable Dependent Variable Standardized Coefficient 95 % CI Lower 95 % CI Upper p-value
Midterm Test Mastery-approach goal 0.109 -0.403 1.387 0.281 Midterm Test Performance-approach goal 0.312 0.470 1.215 0.000 Midterm Test Mastery-avoidance goal -0.133 -1.141 0.041 0.068
(continued on next page)
(continued )
  Independent Variable                   Dependent Variable                                  Standardized Coefficient                        95 % CI Lower                      95 % CI Upper                      p-value
  Midterm Test                           Performance-avoidance goal                          0.163                                           -0.244                             1.779                              0.137
  Complexity                             Mastery-approach goal                               0.063                                           -0.126                             0.236                              0.551
  Complexity                             Performance-approach goal                           0.082                                           -0.035                             0.120                              0.279
  Complexity                             Mastery-avoidance goal                              0.075                                           -0.059                             0.180                              0.320
  Complexity                             Performance-avoidance goal                          -0.169                                          -0.361                             0.052                              0.144
  Complexity                             Midterm Test                                        0.341                                           0.039                              0.094                              0.000
  Length                                 Mastery-approach goal                               0.160                                           -0.957                             7.797                              0.126
  Length                                 Performance-approach goal                           0.006                                           -1.781                             1.929                              0.938
  Length                                 Mastery-avoidance goal                              0.039                                           -2.081                             3.628                              0.595
  Length                                 Performance-avoidance goal                          0.017                                           -4.473                             5.248                              0.876
  Length                                 Midterm Test                                        0.307                                           0.795                              2.113                              0.000
  Final Exam                             Mastery-approach goal                               -0.100                                          -1.849                             0.484                              0.252
  Final Exam                             Performance-approach goal                           0.124                                           0.010                              1.004                              0.046
  Final Exam                             Mastery-avoidance goal                              -0.044                                          -1.033                             0.488                              0.483
  Final Exam                             Performance-avoidance goal                          -0.011                                          -1.389                             1.232                              0.907
  Final Exam                             Midterm Test                                        0.542                                           0.635                              1.008                              0.000
  Final Exam                             Complexity                                          0.133                                           0.104                              1.979                              0.029
  Final Exam                             Length                                              0.013                                           -0.034                             0.043                              0.828
 

12 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Studies in Educational Evaluation 88 (2026) 101566 
References
Aflalo, E. (2021). Students generating questions as a way of learning. Active Learning in 
Higher Education, 22(1), 63–75. https://doi.org/10.1177/1469787418769120Alqassab, M., Strijbos, J.-W., & Ufer, S. (2018). Training peer-feedback skills on 
geometric construction tasks: Role of domain knowledge and peer-feedback levels. European Journal of Psychology of Education, 33(1), 11–30. https://doi.org/10.1007/ s10212-017-0342-0
Ames, C., & Archer, J. (1988). Achievement goals in the classroom: Students' learning 
strategies and motivation processes. Journal of Educational Psychology, 80(3), 
260–267. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-0663.80.3.260
Baranik, L. E., Stanley, L. J., Bynum, B. H., & Lance, C. E. (2010). Examining the 
construct validity of mastery-avoidance achievement goals: A meta-analysis. Human 
Performance, 23(3), 265–282. https://doi.org/10.1080/08959285.2010.488463
Benoit, K., Muhr, D., & Watanabe, K. (2021). stopwords: Multilingual Stopword Lists. In 
(Version R package version 2.3) 〈https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=stopwords〉.
Bong, M., Reeve, J., & Kim, S. (2023). n.-i. Motivation science: controversies and insights. 
Oxford University Press. 
Brown, G. T., Peterson, E. R., & Yao, E. S. (2016). Student conceptions of feedback: 
Impact on self-regulation, self-efficacy, and academic achievement. British Journal of 
Educational Psychology, 86(4), 606–629. https://doi.org/10.1111/bjep.12126
Bürgermeister, A., Glogger-Frey, I., & Saalbach, H. (2021). Supporting peer feedback on 
learning strategies: Effects on self-efficacy and feedback quality. Psychology Learning 
Teaching, 20(3), 383–404. https://doi.org/10.1177/14757257211016604
Butler, A. C., Godbole, N., & Marsh, E. J. (2013). Explanation feedback is better than 
correct answer feedback for promoting transfer of learning. Journal of Educational Psychology, 105(2), 290–298. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0031026
Cambre, J., Klemmer, S., & Kulkarni, C. (2018). Juxtapeer: Comparative peer review 
yields higher quality feedback and promotes deeper reflection. Proceedings of the 2018 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (pp. 1–13). Association for Computing Machinery. https://doi.org/10.1145/3173574.3173868
Carless, D., Salter, D., Yang, M., & Lam, J. (2010). Developing sustainable feedback 
practices. Studies in Higher Education, 36(4), 395–407. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 03075071003642449
Chalmers, R. P. (2012). Mirt: A multidimensional item response theory package for the R 
environment. Journal of Statistical Software, 48(6), 1–29. https://doi.org/10.18637/ jss.v048.i06
Chen, X. (2013). STEM Attrition: College Students’ Paths Into and Out of STEM Fields (NCES 
2014-001). National Center for Education Statistics, Institute of Education Sciences, U.S. Department of Education. Washington, DC.
Cheng, K.-H., & Hou, H.-T. (2015). Exploring students’ behavioural patterns during 
online peer assessment from the affective, cognitive, and metacognitive perspectives: A progressive sequential analysis. Technology, Pedagogy and Education, 24(2), 171–188. https://doi.org/10.1080/1475939X.2013.822416
Cheng, K.-H., Liang, J.-C., & Tsai, C.-C. (2015). Examining the role of feedback messages 
in undergraduate students' writing performance during an online peer assessment activity. The Internet and Higher Education, 25, 78–84. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. iheduc.2015.02.001
Cho, K., Schunn, C. D., & Charney, D. (2006). Commenting on writing: Typology and 
perceived helpfulness of comments from novice peer reviewers and subject matter experts. Written Communication, 23(3), 260–294. https://doi.org/10.1177/ 0741088306289261
Cook, D. A., Hamstra, S. J., Brydges, R., Zendejas, B., Szostek, J. H., Wang, A. T., 
Erwin, P. J., & Hatala, R. (2013). Comparative effectiveness of instructional design features in simulation-based education: Systematic review and meta-analysis. Medical Teacher, 35(1), E844–E875. https://doi.org/10.3109/ 
0142159x.2012.714886
Darvishi, A., Khosravi, H., Abdi, S., Sadiq, S., & Gaˇsevi´c, D. (2022). Incorporating 
training, self-monitoring and AI-assistance to improve peer feedback quality. Proceedings of the Ninth ACM Conference on Learning @ Scale (pp. 35–47). Association for Computing Machinery. https://doi.org/10.1145/3491140.3528265
Datu, J. A. D., Valdez, J. P. M., & Yang, W. (2022). The academically engaged life of 
mastery-oriented students: Causal ordering among positive emotions, mastery- approach goals, and academic engagement. Revista Delelott Psicodid´actica (English 
ed), 27(1), 1–8. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.psicoe.2021.02.001
Dempsey, J. V., Driscoll, M. P., & Swindell, L. K. (1993). Text-based feedback. In 
J. V. Dempsey, & G. C. Sales (Eds.), Interactive Instruction and Feedback (pp. 21–54). Educational Technology. 
Denny, P., Hamer, J., Luxton-Reilly, A., & Purchase, H. (2008a). PeerWise: Students 
sharing their multiple choice questions. Proceedings of the fourth international workshop on computing education research (pp. 51–58). Association for Computing Machinery. https://doi.org/10.1145/1404520.1404526
Denny, P., Luxton-Reilly, A., & Hamer, J. (2008b). The PeerWise system of student 
contributed assessment questions. Proceedings of the tenth conference on Australasian computing education (pp. 69–74). Australian Computer Society. https://doi.org/ 10.5555/1379249.1379255
Dew, N., Read, S., Sarasvathy, S. D., & Wiltbank, R. (2009). Effectual versus predictive 
logics in entrepreneurial decision-making: Differences between experts and novices. Journal of Business Venturing, 24(4), 287–309. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. jbusvent.2008.02.002
Dijks, M. A., Brummer, L., & Kostons, D. (2018). The anonymous reviewer: the 
relationship between perceived expertise and the perceptions of peer feedback in higher education. Assessment Evaluation in Higher Education, 43(8), 1258–1271. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2018.1447645
Diseth, A. (2011). Self-efficacy, goal orientations and learning strategies as mediators 
between preceding and subsequent academic achievement. Learning and Individual Differences, 21(2), 191–195. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lindif.2011.01.003
Doyle, E., Buckley, P., & McCarthy, B. (2021). The impact of content co-creation on 
academic achievement. Assessment Evaluation in Higher Education, 46(3), 494–507. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2020.1782832
Durik, A. M., Lovejoy, C. M., & Johnson, S. J. (2009). A longitudinal study of 
achievement goals for college in general: Predicting cumulative GPA and diversity in course selection. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 34(2), 113–119. https://doi. org/10.1016/j.cedpsych.2008.11.002
Dweck, C. S. (1999). Self-theories: Their Role in Motivation, Personality, and Development (1 
ed.). Psychology Press. https://doi.org/10.4324/9781315783048
Dweck, C. S., & Leggett, E. L. (1988). A social-cognitive approach to motivation and 
personality. Psychological Review, 95(2), 256–273. https://doi.org/10.1037/0033- 295X.95.2.256
Eccles, J. S., & Wang, M.-T. (2016). What motivates females and males to pursue careers 
in mathematics and science? International Journal of Behavioral Development, 40(2), 100–106. https://doi.org/10.1177/0165025415616201
Elliot, A. J. (1999). Approach and avoidance motivation and achievement goals. 
Educational Psychologist, 34(3), 169–189. https://doi.org/10.1207/ 
s15326985ep3403_3
Elliot, A. J., & Church, M. A. (1997). A hierarchical model of approach and avoidance 
achievement motivation. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 72(1), 218–232. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.72.1.218
Elliot, A. J., & Hulleman, C. S. (2017). Achievement goals. In D. S. Yeager, A. J. Elliot, & 
C. S. Dweck (Eds.), Handbook of competence and motivation: Theory and application (2nd ed., pp. 43–60). Guilford Press. 
Elliot, A. J., & McGregor, H. A. (2001). A 2×2 achievement goal framework. Journal of 
Personality and Social Psychology, 80(3), 501–519. https://doi.org/10.1037//0022- 
3514.80.3.501

 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Studies in Educational Evaluation 88 (2026) 101566 
Elliot, A. J., McGregor, H. A., & Gable, S. (1999). Achievement goals, study strategies, 
and exam performance: A mediational analysis. Journal of Educational Psychology, 91 (3), 549–563. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-0663.91.3.549
Elliot, A. J., & Murayama, K. (2008). On the measurement of achievement goals: 
Critique, illustration, and application. Journal of Educational Psychology, 100(3), 613–628. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-0663.100.3.613
Espasa, A., T, G., M, M. R., & Martinez-Melo, M. (2022). Prior experience with online 
feedback: its influence on students’ engagement. Distance Education, 43(3), 444–465. https://doi.org/10.1080/01587919.2022.2088480
Fan, X., & Sivo, S. A. (2007). Sensitivity of fit indices to model misspecification and 
model types. Multivariate Behavioral Research, 42(3), 509–529. https://doi.org/ 10.1080/00273170701382864
Finn, B., Thomas, R., & Rawson, K. A. (2018). Learning more from feedback: Elaborating 
feedback with examples enhances concept learning. Learning and Instruction, 54, 104–113. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2017.08.007
Finney, S. J., Pieper, S. L., & Barron, K. E. (2004). Examining the psychometric properties 
of the achievement goal questionnaire in a general academic context. Educational and Psychological Measurement, 64(2), 365–382. https://doi.org/10.1177/ 0013164403258465
Fiorella, L., & Mayer, R. E. (2014). Role of expectations and explanations in learning by 
teaching. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 39(2), 75–85. https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.cedpsych.2014.01.001
Fiorella, L., & Mayer, R. E. (2016). Eight ways to promote generative learning. 
Educational Psychology Review, 28(4), 717–741. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10648- 015-9348-9
Fong, C. J., & Schallert, D. L. (2023). "Feedback to the future": Advancing motivational 
and emotional perspectives in feedback research. Educational Psychologist, 58(3), 146–161. https://doi.org/10.1080/00461520.2022.2134135
Fu-Yun, Y., & Chun-Ping, W. (2012). Student question-generation: The learning processes 
involved and their relationships with students’ perceived value. Journal of Research in Education Sciences, 57(4), 135–162. https://doi.org/10.3966/ 2073753X2012125704005
Gao, X., Noroozi, O., Gulikers, J. T. M., Biemans, H. J., & Banihashem, S. K. (2023). 
A systematic review of the key components of online peer feedback practices in higher education. Educational Research Review. , Article 100588. https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.edurev.2023.100588
Gick, M. L., & Holyoak, K. J. (1980). Analogical problem solving. Cognitive Psychology, 12 
(3), 306–355. https://doi.org/10.1016/0010-0285(80)90013-4
Glassey, R., & B¨alter, O. (2020). Put the students to work: generating questions with 
constructive feedback. 2020 IEEE Frontiers in Education Conference (FIE) (pp. 1–8). https://doi.org/10.1109/FIE44824.2020.9274110
Goctu, R. (2017). Metacognitive strategies in academic writing. Journal of Education in 
Black Sea Region, 2(2), 82–96. https://doi.org/10.31578/jebs.v2i2.44
Golke, S., Dorfler, ¨ T., & Artelt, C. (2015). The impact of elaborated feedback on text 
comprehension within a computer-based assessment. Learning and Instruction, 39, 123–136. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2015.05.009
Guilding, C., Pye, R. E., Butler, S., Atkinson, M., & Field, E. (2021). Answering questions 
in a co-created formative exam question bank improves summative exam performance, while students perceive benefits from answering, authoring, and peer discussion: A mixed methods analysis of PeerWise. Pharmacology Research Perspectives, 9(4), Article e00833. https://doi.org/10.1002/prp2.833
Guo, J., Hu, X., Elliot, A. J., Marsh, H. W., Murayama, K., Basarkod, G., Parker, P. D., & 
Dicke, T. (2023). Mastery-approach goals: A large-scale cross-cultural analysis of antecedents and consequences. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 125(2), 397–420. https://doi.org/10.1037/pspp0000436
Hair, J. F., Black, W. C., Babin, B. J., & Anderson, R. E. (2019). Multivariate data analysis 
(8th ed.). Cengage Learning. 
Hancock, G. R., & Feng, Y. (2025). nmax and the quest to restore caution, integrity, and 
practicality to the sample size planning process. Psychological Methods. https://doi. org/10.1037/met0000776
Harackiewicz, J. M., Barron, K. E., Pintrich, P. R., Elliot, A. J., & Thrash, T. M. (2002). 
Revision of achievement goal theory: Necessary and illuminating. Journal of Educational Psychology, 94(3), 638–645. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022- 0663.94.3.638
Harris, L. R., Brown, G. T., & Harnett, J. A. (2015). Analysis of New Zealand primary and 
secondary student peer-and self-assessment comments: Applying Hattie and Timperley’s feedback model. Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy Practice, 22 (2), 265–281. https://doi.org/10.1080/0969594X.2014.976541
Hattie, J., & Timperley, H. (2007). The power of feedback. Review of Educational 
Research, 77(1), 81–112. https://doi.org/10.3102/003465430298487
He, W., & Gao, Y. (2023). Explicating peer feedback quality and its impact on feedback 
implementation in EFL writing. Frontiers in Psychology, 14. https://doi.org/10.3389/ fpsyg.2023.1177094, 1177094-1177094.
Hepplestone, S., Holden, G., Irwin, B., Parkin, H. J., & Thorpe, L. (2011). Using 
technology to encourage student engagement with feedback: A literature review. Research in Learning Technology, 19(2), 117. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 21567069.2011.586677
Higgins, T., Dudley, E., Bodger, O., Newton, P., & Francis, N. (2024). Embedding 
retrieval practice in undergraduate biochemistry teaching using PeerWise. Biochemistry and Molecular Biology Education, 52(2), 156–164. https://doi.org/ 10.1002/bmb.21799
Huang, C. (2012). Discriminant and criterion-related validity of achievement goals in 
predicting academic achievement: A meta-analysis. Journal of Educational Psychology, 104(1), 48–73. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0026223
Huang, W., Stephens, J. M., & Brown, G. T. L. (2025). Feedback assisted by technology: A 
systematic review of empirical research. International Journal of Technology in Education, 8(2), 421–444. https://doi.org/10.46328/ijte.1061
Hulleman, C. S., Schrager, S. M., Bodmann, S. M., & Harackiewicz, J. M. (2010). A meta- 
analytic review of achievement goal measures: Different labels for the same constructs or different constructs with similar labels? Psychological Bulletin, 136(3), 422. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0018947
Jin, X., Jiang, Q., Xiong, W., Feng, Y., & Zhao, W. (2024). Effects of student engagement 
in peer feedback on writing performance in higher education. Interactive Learning 
Environments, 32(1), 128–143. https://doi.org/10.1080/10494820.2022.2081209 Jonsson, A. (2012). Facilitating productive use of feedback in higher education. Active 
Learning in Higher Education, 14(1), 63–76. https://doi.org/10.1177/ 
1469787412467125
Khosravi, H., Kitto, K., & Williams, J. J. (2019). RiPPLE: A crowdsourced adaptive 
platform for recommendation of learning activities. Journal of Learning Analytics, 6 (3), 91–105. https://doi.org/10.18608/jla.2019.63.12
Killingsworth, S. S., Clark, D. B., & Adams, D. M. (2015). Self-explanation and 
explanatory feedback in games: Individual differences, gameplay, and learning. International Journal of Education in Mathematics, Science and Technology, 3(3), 162–186. https://doi.org/10.18404/ijemst.15600
Kim, A. S., Stevenson, C. R., & Park, L. (2022). Homework, in-class assignments, and 
midterm exams: Investigating the predictive utility of formative and summative assessments for academic success. Open Scholarship of Teaching and Learning, 2(1), 92–102. https://doi.org/10.56230/osotl.18
Kim, H.-Y. (2013). Statistical notes for clinical researchers: Assessing normal distribution 
(2) using skewness and kurtosis. Restorative Dentistry Endodontics, 38(1), 52–54. https://doi.org/10.5395/rde.2013.38.1.52
Kulhavy, R. W., & Stock, W. A. (1989). Feedback in written instruction: The place of 
response certitude. Educational Psychology Review, 1(4), 279–308. https://doi.org/ 10.1007/BF01320096
Kulhavy, R. W., White, M. T., Topp, B. W., Chan, A. L., & Adams, J. (1985). Feedback 
complexity and corrective efficiency. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 10(3), 285–291. https://doi.org/10.1016/0361-476X(85)90025-6
Kurvinen, E., Kaila, E., Laakso, M. J., & Salakoski, T. (2020). Long term effects on 
technology enhanced learning: The use of weekly digital lessons in mathematics. 
Informatics in Education, 19(1), 51–75. https://doi.org/10.15388/infedu.2020.04
LaFrance, M. (1989). The quality of expertise: Implications of expert-novice differences 
for knowledge acquisition. SIGART Newsletter, (108), 6–14. https://doi.org/ 
10.1145/63266.63267
Lambert, C., Gong, Q., & Zhang, G. (2023). Learner-generated content and the lexical 
recall of beginning-level learners of Chinese as a foreign language. Language Teaching Research, 27(4), 800–819. https://doi.org/10.1177/1362168820981407
Lambert, C., Philp, J., & Nakamura, S. (2017). Learner-generated content and 
engagement in second language task performance. Language Teaching Research, 21 (6), 665–680. https://doi.org/10.1177/1362168816683559
Landis, J. R., & Koch, G. G. (1977). The measurement of observer agreement for 
categorical data. Biometrics, 33(1), 159–174. https://doi.org/10.2307/2529310
Lang, Y., Xie, K., Gong, S., Wang, Y., & Cao, Y. (2022). The impact of emotional feedback 
and elaborated feedback of a pedagogical agent on multimedia learning. Frontiers in 
Psychology, 13, Article 810194. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.810194
Liem, A. D., Lau, S., & Nie, Y. (2008). The role of self-efficacy, task value, and 
achievement goals in predicting learning strategies, task disengagement, peer relationship, and achievement outcome. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 33(4), 486–512. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cedpsych.2007.08.001
Lin, G.-Y. (2018). Anonymous versus identified peer assessment via a Facebook-based 
learning application: Effects on quality of peer feedback, perceived learning, perceived fairness, and attitude toward the system. Computers Education, 116, 81–92. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2017.08.010
Lin, G.-Y. (2020). Scripts and mastery goal orientation in face-to-face versus computer- 
mediated collaborative learning: Influence on performance, affective and motivational outcomes, and social ability. Computers and Education, 143, Article 103691. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2019.103691
Little, T., Dawson, P., Boud, D., & Tai, J. (2024). Can students' feedback literacy be 
improved? A scoping review of interventions. Assessment and Evaluation in Higher Education, 49(1), 39–52. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2023.2177613
Little, T., Dawson, P., Boud, D., & Tai, J. (2025). What does it take to provide effective 
peer feedback? Assessment and Evaluation in Higher Education, 1–12. https://doi.org/ 10.1080/02602938.2025.2475059
Liu, N.-F., & Carless, D. (2006). Peer feedback: The learning element of peer assessment. 
Teaching in Higher Education, 11(3), 279–290. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 13562510600680582
Lu, J., & Law, N. (2012). Online peer assessment: Effects of cognitive and affective 
feedback. Instructional Science, 40(2), 257–275. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11251- 011-9177-2
Malau-Aduli, B. S., Assenheimer, D., Choi-Lundberg, D., & Zimitat, C. (2014). Using 
computer-based technology to improve feedback to staff and students on MCQ assessments. Innovations in Education and Teaching International, 51(5), 510–522. https://doi.org/10.1080/14703297.2013.796711
Mason, B. J., & Bruning, R. (2001). CLASS Research Report No. 9. Center for 
Instructional Innovation. Providing feedback in computer-based instruction: What the research tells us. University of Nebraska–Lincoln. 
Misiejuk, K., & Wasson, B. (2021). Backward evaluation in peer assessment: A scoping 
review. Computers Education, 175, Article 104319. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. compedu.2021.104319

13 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Studies in Educational Evaluation 88 (2026) 101566 
Misiejuk, K., Wasson, B., & Egelandsdal, K. (2021). Using learning analytics to 
understand student perceptions of peer feedback. Computers in Human Behavior, 117, Article 106658. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2020.106658
Mulliner, E., & Tucker, M. (2017). Feedback on feedback practice: Perceptions of 
students and academics. Assessment Evaluation in Higher Education, 42(2), 266–288. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2015.1103365
Munshi, C., & Deneen, C. C. (2018). Technology-Enhanced Feedback. In A. A. Lipnevich, 
& J. K. Smith (Eds.), The Cambridge Handbook of Instructional Feedback (pp. 335–356). Cambridge University Press. https://doi.org/10.1017/9781316832134.017. 
Mutch, A. (2003). Exploring the practice of feedback to students. Active Learning in Higher 
Education, 4(1), 24–38. https://doi.org/10.1177/1469787403004001003
Narciss, S. (2008). Feedback strategies for interactive learning tasks. Handbook of 
Research on Educational Communications and Technology (Third Edition, pp. 125–143). https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203880869-13
Nelson, M. M., & Schunn, C. D. (2009). The nature of feedback: How different types of 
peer feedback affect writing performance. Instructional Science, 37(4), 375–401. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11251-008-9053-x
Nicol, D. (2012). Resituating feedback from the reactive to the proactive. In (pp. 34-49). 
https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203074336.
Ocampo, J. C., Panadero, E., Zamorano, D., S´anchez-Iglesias,  I., & Diez Ruiz, F. (2024). 
The effects of gender and training on peer feedback characteristics. Assessment and Evaluation in Higher Education, 49(4), 539–555. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 02602938.2023.2286432
Panadero, E. (2016). Is it safe? Social, interpersonal, and human effects of peer 
assessment: A review and future directions. In G. T. L. Brown, & L. R. Harris (Eds.), 
Handbook of Human and Social Conditions in Assessment (pp. 247–266). Routledge. Panadero, E., & Lipnevich, A. A. (2022). A review of feedback models and typologies: 
Towards an integrative model of feedback elements. Educational Research Review, 35, 
Article 100416. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.edurev.2021.100416
Parkin, H. J., Hepplestone, S., Holden, G., Irwin, B., & Thorpe, L. (2012). A role for 
technology in enhancing students' engagement with feedback. Assessment Evaluation 
in Higher Education, 37(8), 963–973. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 
02602938.2011.592934
Patchan, M. M., & Schunn, C. D. (2015). Understanding the benefits of providing peer 
feedback: how students respond to peers' texts of varying quality. Instructional Science, 43(5), 591–614. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11251-015-9353-x
Patchan, M. M., Schunn, C. D., & Correnti, R. J. (2016). The nature of feedback: How 
peer feedback features affect students' implementation rate and quality of revisions. Journal of Educational Psychology, 108(8), 1098–1120. https://doi.org/10.1037/ edu0000103
Pilegard, C., & Fiorella, L. (2016). Helping students help themselves: Generative learning 
strategies improve middle school students' self-regulation in a cognitive tutor. Computers in Human Behavior, 65, 121–126. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. chb.2016.08.020
Pitt, E., Bearman, M., & Esterhazy, R. (2020). The conundrum of low achievement and 
feedback for learning. Assessment Evaluation in Higher Education, 45(2), 239–250. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2019.1630363
Ramadhanti, D., & Yanda, D. P. (2021). Students' metacognitive awareness and its impact 
on writing skill. International Journal of Language Education, 5(3), 193–206. https:// doi.org/10.26858/ijole.v5i3.18978
Rosseel, Y. (2012). Lavaan: An R package for structural equation modeling. Journal of 
Statistical Software, 48(2), 1–36. https://doi.org/10.18637/jss.v048.i02
Rotsaert, T., Panadero, E., & Schellens, T. (2018). Anonymity as an instructional scaffold 
in peer assessment: Its effects on peer feedback quality and evolution in students' perceptions about peer assessment skills. European Journal of Psychology of Education, 33(1), 75–99. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10212-017-0339-8
Rowland, C. A. (2014). The effect of testing versus restudy on retention: A meta-analytic 
review of the testing effect. Psychological Bulletin, 140(6), 1432–1463. https://doi. org/10.1037/a0037559
Ryoo, K., & Linn, M. C. (2014). Designing guidance for interpreting dynamic 
visualizations: Generating versus reading explanations. Journal of Research in Science Teaching, 51(2), 147–174. https://doi.org/10.1002/tea.21128
Schoemann, A. M., & Jorgensen, T. D. (2021). Testing and interpreting latent variable 
interactions using the semTools package. Psych, 3(3), 322–335. https://doi.org/ 10.3390/psych3030024
Senko, C., & Dawson, B. (2017). Performance-approach goal effects depend on how they 
are defined: Meta-analytic evidence from multiple educational outcomes. Journal of 
Educational Psychology, 109(4), 574–598. https://doi.org/10.1037/edu0000160
Senko, C., & Freund, A. M. (2015). Are mastery-avoidance achievement goals always 
detrimental? An adult development perspective. Motivation and Emotion, 39(4), 
477–488. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11031-015-9474-1
Shute, V. J. (2008). Focus on formative feedback. Review of Educational Research, 78(1), 
153–189. https://doi.org/10.3102/0034654307313795
Slamecka, N. J., & Graf, P. (1978). The generation effect: Delineation of a phenomenon. 
Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Learning and Memory, 4(6), 592–604. https://doi.org/10.1037/0278-7393.4.6.592
Strijbos, J.-W., Narciss, S., & Dünnebier, K. (2010). Peer feedback content and sender's 
competence level in academic writing revision tasks: Are they critical for feedback perceptions and efficiency? Learning and Instruction, 20(4), 291–303. https://doi. org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2009.08.008
Topping, K. (1998). Peer assessment between students in colleges and universities. 
Review of Educational Research, 68(3), 249–276. https://doi.org/10.3102/ 00346543068003249
Tornwall, J., Xie, K., Yu, S. L., Stein, D., Zurmehly, J., & Nichols, R. (2021). Effects of 
knowledge and value on quality of supportive peer feedback. Nurse Educator, 46(3), 174–179. https://doi.org/10.1097/NNE.0000000000000897
van der Kleij, F. M., Eggen, T. J. H. M., Timmers, C. F., & Veldkamp, B. P. (2012). Effects 
of feedback in a computer-based assessment for learning. Computers and Education, 58(1), 263–272. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2011.07.020
Van der Kleij, F. M., Feskens, R. C., & Eggen, T. J. (2015). Effects of feedback in a 
computer-based learning environment on students’ learning outcomes: A meta- analysis. Review of Educational Research, 85(4), 475–511. https://doi.org/10.3102/ 0034654314564881
Vanderhoven, E., Raes, A., Montrieux, H., Rotsaert, T., & Schellens, T. (2015). What if 
pupils can assess their peers anonymously? A quasi-experimental study. Computers & Education, 81, 123–132. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2014.10.001
Veremis, B. M., Granberg, L., Ramaswamy, V., Popov, V., Katser, M. S., & Danciu, T. E. 
(2024). Can peer feedback substitute for faculty feedback in predoctoral dental education? Journal of Dental Education, 88(5), 631–638. https://doi.org/10.1002/ jdd.13472
Wang, C., Shim, S. S., & Wolters, C. A. (2017). Achievement goals, motivational self-talk, 
and academic engagement among Chinese students. Asia Pacific Education Review, 18 (3), 295–307. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12564-017-9495-4
Wang, H., & Lehman, J. D. (2021). Using achievement goal-based personalized 
motivational feedback to enhance online learning. Educational Technology Research 
and Development, 69(2), 553–581. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11423-021-09940-3 Wang, Z., Gong, S.-Y., Xu, S., & Hu, X.-E. (2019). Elaborated feedback and learning: 
Examining cognitive and motivational influences. Computers Education, 136, 
130–140. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2019.04.003
West, S. G., Finch, J. F., & Curran, P. J. (1995). Structural equation models with 
nonnormal variables: Problems and remedies. In R. H. Hoyle (Ed.), Structural 
equation modeling: Concepts, issues, and applications (pp. 56–75). Sage Publications. Winstone, N. E., Hepper, E. G., & Nash, R. A. (2021). Individual differences in self- 
reported use of assessment feedback: The mediating role of feedback beliefs. 
Educational Psychology, 41(7), 844–862. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 
01443410.2019.1693510
Winstone, N. E., Nash, R. A., Parker, M., & Rowntree, J. (2017). Supporting learners' 
agentic engagement with feedback: A systematic review and a taxonomy of recipience processes. Educational Psychologist, 52(1), 17–37. https://doi.org/ 10.1080/00461520.2016.1207538
Wisniewski, B., Zierer, K., & Hattie, J. (2019). The power of feedback revisited: A meta- 
analysis of educational feedback research. Frontiers in Psychology, 10, 3087. https:// doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2019.03087
Wisniewski, B., Zierer, K., & Hattie, J. (2020). The power of feedback revisited: A meta- 
analysis of educational feedback research. Frontiers in Psychology, 10, 3087. https:// doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2019.03087
Wittrock, M. C. (2010). Learning as a generative process. Educational Psychologist, 45(1), 
40–45. https://doi.org/10.1080/00461520903433554
Wu, Y., & Schunn, C. D. (2020). When peers agree, do students listen? The central role of 
feedback quality and feedback frequency in determining uptake of feedback. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 62. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. cedpsych.2020.101897
Wu, Y., & Schunn, C. D. (2021). The effects of providing and receiving peer feedback on 
writing performance and learning of secondary school students. American Educational Research Journal, 58(3), 492–526. https://doi.org/10.3102/ 0002831220945266
Xiong, Y., & Schunn, C. D. (2021). Reviewer, essay, and reviewing-process characteristics 
that predict errors in web-based peer review. Computers Education, 166, Article 104146. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2021.104146
Yen, W. M. (1993). Scaling performance assessments: Strategies for managing local item 
dependence. Journal of Educational Measurement, 30(3), 187–213. https://doi.org/ 10.1111/j.1745-3984.1993.tb00423.x
Yu, F.-Y. (2019). An online learning system supporting student-generated explanations 
for questions: Design, development, and pedagogical potential. Interactive Learning 
Environments, 30(5), 782–802. https://doi.org/10.1080/10494820.2019.1686398 Yu, F.-Y., & Chen, C.-Y. (2021). Student- versus teacher-generated explanations for 
answers to online multiple-choice questions: What are the differences? Computers 
and Education, 173, Article 104273. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
compedu.2021.104273
Yu, F.-Y., & Su, C.-L. (2015). A student-constructed test learning system: The design, 
development and evaluation of its pedagogical potential. Australasian Journal of Educational Technology, 31(6), 685–698. https://doi.org/10.14742/ajet.2190
Yu, F.-Y., & Wu, W.-S. (2020). Effects of student-generated feedback corresponding to 
answers to online student-generated questions on learning: What, why, and how? Computers Education, 145. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2019.103723
Yu, F.-Y., Wu, W.-S., & Huang, H.-C. (2018). Promoting middle school students' learning 
motivation and academic emotions via student-created feedback for online student- created multiple-choice questions. The Asia-Pacific Education Researcher, 27(5), 395–408. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40299-018-0398-x
Yu, Q., & Schunn, C. D. (2023). Understanding the what and when of peer feedback 
benefits for performance and transfer. Computers in Human Behavior, 147. https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2023.107857
Yu, Q., & Schunn, C. D. (2024). Which experiences are consistently associated with other- 
regulation of peer feedback length? Journal of Educational Psychology. https://doi. org/10.1037/edu0000913
Zhang, S., Yu, H., & Zhang, L. J. (2021). Understanding the sustainable growth of EFL 
students' writing skills: Differences between novice and expert writers in their use of lexical bundles in academic writing. Sustainability, 13(10), 5553. https://doi.org/ 10.3390/su13105553
Zhang, Y., Schunn, C. D., & Wu, Y. (2024). What does it mean to be good at peer 
reviewing? A multidimensional scaling and cluster analysis study of behavioral 

14 
W. Huang et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Studies in Educational Evaluation 88 (2026) 101566 
indicators of peer feedback literacy. International Journal of Educational Technology in  Zong, Z., Schunn, C. D., & Wang, Y. (2021b). What aspects of online peer feedback Higher Education, 21(1). https://doi.org/10.1186/s41239-024-00458-1, 26-22. robustly predict growth in students’  task performance? Computers in Human 
Zong, Z., Schunn, C., & Wang, Y. (2022a). What makes students contribute more peer  Behavior, 124. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2021.106924
feedback? The role of within-course experience with peer feedback. Assessment and  Zong, Z., Schunn, C. D., & Wang, Y. (2022b). Do experiences of interactional inequality 
Evaluation in Higher Education, 47(6), 972–983. https://doi.org/10.1080/  predict lower depth of future student participation in peer review? Computers in 
02602938.2021.1968792 Human Behavior, 127, Article 107056. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2021.107056 Zong, Z., Schunn, C. D., & Wang, Y. (2021a). Learning to improve the quality peer  Zong, Z., Schunn, C. D., & Wang, Y. (2023). When do students provide more peer 
feedback through experience with peer feedback. Assessment and Evaluation in Higher  feedback? The roles of performance and prior feedback experiences. Instructional 
Education, 46(6), 973–992. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2020.1833179 Science, 51(6), 977–1003. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11251-023-09640-w
15 
