EDUCATIONAL PSYCHOLOGIST
2023, VOL. 58, NO. 3, 178—192
https://doi.org/10.1080/00461520.2023.2208670
In defence of psychometric measurement: a systematic review of contemporary self-report feedback inventories
Gavin T. L. Browna,b  and Anran Zhao c 
aThe University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand;bUme  Universitet, Ume , Sweden;cThe Ministry of Education, Wellington, New Zealand
ABSTRACT KEYWORDS
How learners understand, respond to, and value educational feedback has been researched with Feedback; psychometrics; self-report inventories, in which respondents provide insights into how they understand and claim perceptions or conceptions to use feedback. The validity of learner self-reports depends on the credibility of the measures for or perspectives or
orientation; measurement both reliability and validity. A systematic search of Scopus for studies post-1999 found 42 studies inventories; self-regulated
using multiple indicators, multiple causes (MIMIC) psychometric methods to measure participants learning and self-regulation perceptions of feedback, giving evidence of internal structure and finding relationships with one
or more of self-regulation, self-efficacy, or achievement emotions. A detailed analysis was con-
ducted for ten inventories that had high-quality psychometric properties. Agreeing that feedback
was useful and/or was used was positively associated with greater academic outcomes. However,
only one inventory provided evidence related to independently measured behaviors. Important
directions for further research are identified, including the use of strong psychometric methods,
independent validation measures, replication samples, and behavioral measures.

Most of what is known about the effectiveness of feedback depends on student self-reports, rather than independent behaviors or outcomes. Indeed, the influence of feedback on student perceptions, behaviors, or outcomes requires consid- eration of what learners say for themselves. However, self- reports are subject to well-understood limitations (e.g., memory failings, lack of self-knowledge, or the need to pro- tect the self ). These concerns are especially important when conclusions regarding how students understand and perceive feedback are based on small-scale studies (e.g., interviews or focus groups). To illustrate the prevalence of these studies, we note that a recent review of research on student feedback literacy (Nieminen & Carless, 2022) identi- fied 33 studies, of which 29 used qualitative methods and only two used structured response scales. Further, few sur- vey studies of student perceptions of feedback follow   industry  standards in how to design, validate, adapt, and use questionnaires to answer a variety of important research questions  (Van der Kleij & Lipnevich,2021, p. 358). Hence, an important challenge in researching student perceptions of feedback stems from the common use of samples and meth- ods outside the norms of psychometric research.
The challenges in using self-report instruments in research are also pertinent to how student perceptions of feedback are used within higher education institutions. On the National Student Survey in the UK, poor scores for how
students perceive feedback can lead to negative evaluations of institutional quality by external agencies (Leckey & Neill, 2001) or cause institutions to impose new regulations around how quickly assignments need to be marked (Williams & Kane, 2008). To address concerns about sub- jectivity, many higher education institutions use student evaluation of teaching questionnaires (Richardson, 2005) that include items about feedback, thus, producing feedback about feedback. However, student responses on such inven- tories may arise from false ideas about practices that support learning; in other words, instructor fluency, engagement, and enthusiasm can inflate students  sense of learning and satisfaction but may not necessarily cause learning to take place (Carpenter et al., 2020). Hence, making decisions based on students  illusion of learning can lead to unfair evaluations of teaching quality (Esarey & Valdes, 2020). Additionally, students who prioritize satisfaction in learning may avoid and resent painful growth-causing messages found in negative teacher comments or grades (Boekaerts & Corno, 2005). Consequently, reliance on student perceptions about feedback to make administrative decisions requires robust psychometric research to overcome the subjectivity of small samples, poorly developed instruments, or lack of val- idation evidence independent of self-reports.
Hence, the purpose of this paper is to search for evidence that the challenges in using participant perceptions of feed- back can be overcome. Inventories that measure student

CONTACTGavin T. L. Brown gt.brown@auckland.ac.nz The Faculty of Education and Social Work, The University of Auckland, Private Bag 92019, Victoria Str. West, Auckland, Auckland, 1142, New Zealand
Supplemental data for this article can be accessed online athttps://doi.org/10.1080/00461520.2023.2208670.
  2023 The Author(s). Published with license by Taylor & Francis Group, LLC
This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. The terms on which this article has been published allow the posting of the Accepted Manuscript in a repository by the author(s) or with their consent.

179  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
perceptions of feedback through self-report inventories are systematically reviewed. By evaluating the articles in light of psychometric principles, an understanding is sought of what can be concluded with confidence about student perceptions of feedback and their relationship with behaviors and actions. Of the hundreds of studies identified, just a few are of the highest quality and fewer connect self-report data to behavioral outcomes. This means that, despite the potential of self-report measures in understanding how students experience and use feedback, there are significant develop- ments still to be made for this potential to be realized.
In this paper, a brief review of student perceptions of feedback within self-regulation of learning approach (Zimmerman, 2002) is given. Then the psychometric princi- ples used to evaluate evidence about student feedback per- ceptions inventories are highlighted. A systematic review of student feedback perceptions research identified just 10 studies that met psychometric quality criteria from a pool of 251 papers. This review provides an overview of how feed- back perceptions have been measured and their relation- ships, if any, to other factors (e.g., academic outcomes or behaviors). Finally, we consider more broadly the gaps in what is known and argue that well-constructed, theoretic- ally-motivated psychometric measures can, in principle, make invaluable contributions to filling these gaps.
Feedback
Feedback is an important educational process that provides information to learners about the quality and characteristics of learning (Hattie & Timperley, 2007) and which is associ- ated with large positive learning gains (Wisniewski et al., 2019). Because learners are required to use feedback infor- mation but do not always do so effectively (Harris et al., 2018; Nicol & Macfarlane-Dick, 2006), it is important to understand how students understand, perceive, and experi- ence feedback. Systematic research into student perceptions of feedback, grounded in psychometric methods, ensures that results meet quality expectations.
Student perceptions of feedback arise from their experi- ence of receiving information from various sources (usually a teacher or a test) that provide potentially actionable insights (Hattie & Timperley, 2007). This definition instanti- ates a simple transmission model of feedback in which the student performs and the teacher or test evaluates the work, generating feedback as a score or commentary. Considerable early educational research focused on the impact of the sim- plest form of feedback (i.e., knowing one s results; Crafts & Gilbert, 1935). Although this approach did not explicitly state that the student should do anything with the informa- tion, the implication was that the learner would benefit from and make changes to their work using this information (Ramaprasad, 1983).
Contemporary models of feedback focus on (a) a wide variety of input conditions and contexts that need to be in place so that the feedback is usable and (b) on the psych- ology (e.g., beliefs, motivations, emotions, attitudes) of the learner who has to process the feedback information
(Lipnevich et al., 2016). Readers interested in the history of educational feedback theorization are encouraged to read Lipnevich and Panadero (2021) and their integrative model (Message, Implementation, Student, Context, Agents; MISCA) based on that history (Panadero & Lipnevich, 2022). The MISCA model positions the recipient characteris- tics, rather than the content or delivery of feedback, as cen- tral to what is currently known about feedback and how feedback should be designed.
Thus, understanding how learners understand, experi- ence, and respond to feedback is necessary for designing feedback messages, and their delivery, to promote the agentic use of feedback. There are many theoretical frame- works (e.g., interest, expectancy-value, goal orientation, agency, achievement motivation, motivation-hygiene, goal setting, mastery beliefs, self-concept, attribution, self-deter- mination, planned behavior, etc.) that provide insights and evidence as to how students might respond to or think about feedback (see Fong & Schallert, 2023/this issue). The multiplicity of motivational or learning theories and their substantial overlap (Hattie et al., 2020; Murphy & Alexander, 2000) means that there is no one theory of how feedback functions. Nonetheless, in this article perceptions of feedback are positioned as a potentially potent self-regula- tory control process.
Feedback in education requires a prior performance or product that receives either constructive formative or ter- minal summative evaluation (Hattie & Timperley, 2007). Because educational feedback happens in the sequential pro- cess of classroom instruction (i.e., after or during student performance), it makes sense to approach it from the per- spective of self-regulation of learning (SRL; Boekaerts & Corno, 2005; Butler & Winne, 1995; Zimmerman, 2002). For feedback to be effective, students need to take responsi- bility for understanding and making use of feedback to improve their future learning outcomes or processes. Such actions are fundamental to the notion of self-regulation of learning. Feedback from teachers is generally intended to support students in regulating their learning and result in better performance, as seen in several studies of teacher feedback impact on SRL (Fatima et al., 2022; Guo, 2020; Hern andez Rivero et al., 2021). Feedback and SRL are linked through the internal cognitive feedback learners give them- selves (Butler & Winne, 1995) and by the external feedback they receive and reflect upon (Zimmerman, 2002). The feed- back that supports learning also supports student SRL (Nicol & Macfarlane-Dick, 2006). Thus, SRL provides a suit- able framework for understanding how students receive, interpret, and exploit feedback.
Feedback seeking is a proactive behavior to obtain infor- mation from the environment to monitor and improve per- formance (Ashford et al., 2016). Feedback-seeking strategies (i.e., inquiring for feedback and monitoring for indirect feedback) enhance creative performance (De Stobbeleir et al., 2011). Thus, if students do not have a strong basis for making robust judgments when required to self-assess their work, they are likely to seek insights from formal external feedback (e.g., grades, test scores, and peer or teacher

181  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
comments; Yan & Brown, 2017) rather than rely on their own internal sources (e.g., physical sensations) or monitor- ing of the environment (Joughin et al., 2021). Within SRL, effective learners would seek feedback to inform their own self-assessments (Harris & Brown,2018), provided the envir- onment supported such efforts (Yan et al., 2020).
Thus, research into how students regulate their responses to feedback includes an understanding of how they perceive it, react to it, ignore or use it, and otherwise psychologically respond when receiving feedback. In order to examine the research literature on student perceptions of feedback, the next section outlines the key principles of psychometric methodology as the basis for evaluating the quality of psy- chological research on feedback perceptions.
Psychometric theory and practice
Psychometrics concerns the scientific application of system- atic methods to eliminate alternative explanations (e.g., error, bias, randomness, or rival hypotheses) for psycho- logical phenomena (e.g., attitudes, performance, motivations, etc.) and to estimate the size, direction, or strength of such constructs. Psychometrics grew out of psychological scaling, educational and psychological measurement, and factor ana- lysis  (Jones & Thissen, 2006, p. 8) and is the disciplinary home of a set of statistical models and methods that have been developed primarily to summarize, describe, and draw inferences from empirical data collected in psychological research  (Jones & Thissen, 2006, p. 21). Psychometrics combines statistical mathematical tools with postpositive hypothetical-deductive science (Philips & Burbules, 2000) to identify and measure latent unobservable psychological con- structs (Borsboom, 2005) and relate them to predictors and consequences. These statistical methods evaluate the accur- acy and validity of the measures used to understand humans.
Psychometric protocols that constitute best practice in evaluating psychological phenomena have been developed for over a century to measure and validate what individuals say about themselves. This is necessary because self-reports can be erroneous as a result of memory problems (Schacter, 1999), lack of self-awareness about competence (Dunning et al., 2004), the need to protect the ego or self  (Boekaerts
& Corno, 2005), or even the desire to subvert research (Fan et al., 2006). To further reduce error and noise that can arise from small samples or using single items as measures, psy- chological self-report research (Allport, 1935) relies on a  Multiple Indicators, Multiple Causes  (MIMIC) framework (Joreskog & Goldberger, 1975). MIMIC models use multiple indicators (i.e., the specific items answered by the respond- ent) to estimate unmeasured hypothetical or latent con- structs that are putatively responsible for the responses. This means that self-report questionnaires or inventories contain multiple items to probe each key aspect of a construct to ensure participants focus on all the theoretically important features of the construct, rather than respond to just one aspect of the construct. This maximizes the probability that
an informant will provide valid, replicable patterns in their responding to the theoretical framing of the construct.
In a MIMIC model, participant responses to any ques- tionnaire item are seen as being caused by two sources; that is, the underlying latent psychological construct and random unexplained factors that influence responding (e.g., distrac- tion, inattention, lack of effort, etc.). Because MIMIC models account for the prominence of randomness, they provide a means of removing those sources of variance from latent construct scores, resulting in insights that are more purely representative of the construct of interest. Further, using the MIMIC framework, it is possible to estimate the strength and direction of theoretical relations or paths (i.e., correla- tions or regressions) from one or more manifest responses or latent constructs to other responses or constructs. MIMIC models include all types of factor analysis, including principal component analysis (PCA), exploratory and con- firmatory factor analysis (EFA and CFA respectively), and structural equation models (SEM) (Joreskog & van Thillo, 1972). The MIMIC framework thus provides a mathematical basis for determining whether participant responses conform to theoretical expectations in both the measurement of con- structs and the structural relations among constructs.
Because psychological phenomena, including perceptions of feedback, are latent (i.e., not directly observable), infer- ences about their nature and function must be based on robust theory about how, in this case, learners perceive and respond to feedback. Validation evidence for instruments usually begins with preparatory techniques (e.g., pilot stud- ies, International Test Commission, 2017; expert judgment panels, McCoach et al., 2013; participant think-aloud studies, van Someren et al., 1994; and cognitive interviews, Karabenick et al., 2007) that show that the items align with the theory and are understood as intended by participants. Statistical evidence for the coherence of a scale comes from mathematical methods such as exploratory and confirmatory
factor analyses, item response theory (Cudeck & MacCallum, 2007; Embretson & Reise,2000), and from scale reliability estimation (McNeish, 2018). Once theoretically defensible scales are created, scores are calculated (DiStefano et al., 2009) to afford inferences about the nature and/or quantity of important internal psychological attributes.
However, the validity of self-report scores, even when meeting internal evidence expectations, depends on the rela- tionship of latent construct scores to other constructs, espe- cially those behaviors that are independent of what individuals self-report (Cronbach, 1988). The degree to which self-report scores act in accordance with theoretical predictions should be seen in convergent relations to con- ceptually similar constructs and divergent or negative rela- tions to those which are conceptually different (Campbell & Fiske, 1959). Data from biometric evidence (e.g., fMRI; Kim et al., 2010; Meyer et al.,2021), online behaviors (i.e., mouse clicks, time lapsed, routes used, etc.; Lundgren & Eklof, 2020), attendance (Wise & Cotten, 2009), measures of aca- demic performance (Brown et al., 2009; Marsh et al., 2006), and other sources show whether variation in latent construct scores is meaningfully related (i.e., causally or explanatorily)
to self-reported constructs that should be sensitive to such variation (Borsboom et al., 2004; Zumbo, 2009). The impli- cation is clear: understanding how student perceptions of feedback matter to behaviors or outcomes requires strong attention to the principles of psychometric measurement and validation (e.g., sample size and appropriate analytic methods).
Once validation evidence to appropriate external con- structs is established, it is important to determine that the result is not a function of chance artifacts within the data set obtained. Thus, replication of results is essential (Makel et al., 2012) across groups or times. Given the complexity of psychological factors impinging upon behaviors, the impact of any specific perception on a subsequent behavior or out- come may be quite small and hard to replicate (Lindsay, 2015). So, it is difficult to replicate previously published results with small-scale studies (n< 100) (Cohen, 1988), whereas studies with larger samples can detect small effects.
In the end, a conclusion about whether there is robust evidence for the existence of a latent construct and its meas- urement depends on an overall judgment (Cizek, 2020; Cronbach, 1988; Messick, 1989) as to the degree of support (e.g., preponderance of evidence , clear and convincing evidence , substantial evidence ; Cizek, 2020, p. 26). Good psychometric approaches for the validity of a self-report inventory should generate prima facie evidence, coherent with some theory or conceptual model, that the instrument used to elicit participant data aligns faithfully to a theoretic- ally robust description of what the construct is, how it func- tions, and what it should do. Robust statistical evidence is needed to show that how participants responded aligns with the theoretical framework developed from prior research. Otherwise, the grouping of items may reflect the a priori expectations of the researcher, reflecting a potential halo effect (Thorndike, 1920). Given the power of chance, evi- dence is needed that measurements are reproducible with other groups from the same population and exhibit stability over time. Similarly, evidence is needed that variation in scores has a theoretically explainable relationship with other self-reports, behaviors, or outcomes and, ideally, that experi- mental manipulation produces changes in a theoretically proposed direction.
In light of these expectations, we review contemporary self-report measures of student perceptions of feedback and judge the quality of the evidence against these standards. The goal is to ascertain if this quality of research exists around student perceptions of feedback and if it exists, what it might say about if and how perceptions matter to educa- tional outcomes, learner behaviors, or attitudes.
Method
We systematically searched the literature for feedback- related self-report inventories. A first systematic search in Web of Science for measurement inventories in student per- ceptions of feedback did not identify articles meeting the search criteria. However, a search in Scopus produced many relevant results. To ensure results focused on the key
construct of student perceptions of feedback, the words  feedback  and student  were required to appear in the title. To ensure coverage of the topic, the search field was extended to the title, abstract, or keywords for synonyms of  perception  (i.e., conception, perspective, orientation). To capture feedback perceptions inventories, the search field for synonyms of measurement  (i.e., test, questionnaire, survey, or scale) were sought from anywhere in the record. Likewise, to increase the likelihood that MIMIC method- ology had been used the terms factor  and analysis  were sought from anywhere in the record. The publication date was restricted to 2000 and beyond to identify contemporary research. For replication purposes, the Scopus search string is provided:
((TITLE(feedback) AND ((TITLE(student)) AND TITLE-ABS- KEY(perception  OR conception  OR perspective OR
orientation))) AND (measurement OR test OR questionnaire OR survey OR scale)) AND (factor AND analysis) AND PUBYEAR > 1999
This search string produced 168 results, which was sup- plemented by 20 unique inventories either known to the authors or suggested via email from J-W. Strijbos (personal communication, December 21, 2021). This produced 188 items, which were scanned independently by the two authors to eliminate sources that failed the exclusion criteria (Figure 1). Items were excluded if they reported student evaluative feedback on teaching or institutions, or if they focused on teacher perceptions of feedback.
A first-round based on reading titles produced an agree- ment for 125 items on whether or not the inclusion criteria were met (75% consensus, j  .50), with 41 items not in agreement. A second round of reading titles and abstracts produced agreement on a further 27, resulting in 92% con- sensus (j  .83). The 14 items that did not get agreement were retained for detailed inspection. From 188 unique items, 70 articles were removed because they did not qualify.
The remaining 118 sources were scanned to identify an additional 63 sources mentioned in the reference lists that seemed to relate to student perceptions of feedback. This meant 181 records were evaluated for inclusion in the review. Of these, 68 were excluded for multiple reasons (i.e., not about student perceptions of feedback, n  20; not in English, n  3; not possible to access, n  3; used qualitative methods, n  28, a review, n  6, pre-2000, n  8; Supplementary File A). Another 71 studies used survey methods but did not use MIMIC methodologies and so were removed (Supplementary File B). Many of these removed articles reported analysis of each item separately without considering possible aggregation of items into sets or factors, only gave scale reliability information without evaluation of factor structure, or relied on previously reported factor structures without validation in the sample being described.
The remaining 42 records were evaluated for the statis- tical procedures used, the number of samples used, and the type of validation evidence provided. Each article was scored on each of these dimensions, with details of scoring

  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO

Figure 1. PRISMA Search and selection process.

183  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
provided. In terms of statistical method, principal compo- nent analysis (PCA) was scored  1 because it does not give researchers a way to separate error variance from item scores or their composite (Bryant & Yarnold, 1995). In con- trast, both exploratory (EFA) and confirmatory factor ana- lysis (CFA) allow researchers well-established methods for estimating and removing error variance from item scores and any composite scores that might be computed. EFA was scored as 2 because it allows off-factor loadings to be differ- ent to zero. CFA was scored as 3 because it requires non- specified paths (i.e., off-factor loadings) to be zero. The logic of CFA then provides the strongest test of alignment between theory (e.g., a model of items which belong to a specific factor and not to another) and data (i.e., the model has off-factor values so small, that it is legitimate to accept the model). This element of the coding was based on the  strongest  form of evidence included within a paper. All
studies using CFA or structural equation modeling received the same methods score of 3, even if they also reported PCA or EFA. This hierarchy of methods gives greater weight to models that allow for estimating and controlling for error in the model (i.e., EFA and CFA) and which impose the greatest restrictions (i.e., CFA).
In terms of the number of samples used, studies with one single sample were scored 1, whereas those with more than one sample or which split the sample into two groups were awarded 2. Having two or more samples allows for psycho- metric evidence derived from one sample to be tested for equivalence in the second other or later samples. In terms of validation evidence, those with internal psychometric evi- dence only were given 0, those that related perceptions to self-report scores scored 1, and those that had a behavioral or performance measure gained 2. This weighting recognizes the importance of evidence that is not self-reported or

  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
subject to bias. The maximum possible score was 7. The modal sum score across the three variables was 5, with only 10 inventories scoring 6 or 7, whereas 17 had values of 4 or less. All 10 inventories with total scores of 6 or 7 had a score of 3 for the statistical method criterion.
Detailed reporting is restricted to the ten inventories with scores of six or seven on the grounds that these studies exhibit the most robust psychometric evidence (Table 1). This restriction means that only studies with high-quality statistical methods (i.e., statistical, replication, and validation processes) were used to examine what is known about how student self-reported feedback perceptions relate to external variables or behaviors. Having reduced the population of records through systematic review protocols to the most psychometrically robust sample, next we provide an over- view of the study characteristics and thematic categorization of findings.
Results
We report first the major characteristics of the ten retained inventories in terms of useful background characteristics of each study, such as the participants, the feedback context, the status of the inventory, the type of feedback given, and the psychometric features of the studies. We then examine the theoretical constructs used to understand student per- ceptions of feedback and the external evidence used to valid- ate claims about the meaning of student perceptions of feedback.
Characteristics of studies
Table 2 provides a high-level summary of the characteristics of these ten reports. For efficiency of reporting all studies are referred to by a numeric ID as shown in Table 1. Six studies used undergraduate students and four studies used primary or secondary school students; note one study used both undergraduates and secondary students (#124, Studies 1, 2a, and 2c). Thus, more is known about how undergradu- ate university students perceive feedback than any other group. Because context matters, it is useful to note that only three studies were conducted outside western nations (i.e., Tanzania #49, China #98, and Hong Kong #91), although it is worth considering that enrollment in western higher edu- cation now includes students from multiple locations. Nonetheless, the research is dominated by studies in
Western, Educated, Industrialized, Rich, and Democratic (WEIRD) cultures (Henrich et al., 2010).
In terms of subjects in which feedback was generated, four studies (#97, 111, 128, 129) did not specify in what learning area the research was conducted, whereas two stud- ies (#49, 91) involved mathematics, and one each in English as a Foreign Language (#98), Communication (#114), and General Education (#28). The one study with a behavioral measure (#124) linked feedback to personal health rather than an educational topic.
Six studies reported the original development of a new perceptions inventory (i.e., Students  Perceptions of Teachers Level of Feedback Questionnaire [SPTLFQ; #98], Feedback Perceived Usefulness & Frequency Scales [FPU and FPF; #91]; Feedback Orientation Scale [FOS; #111], Instructional Feedback Orientation Scale [IFOS; #114], Information Avoidance Scale [IAS; #124], and German Feedback Socialization Inventory [FSI; #129]). Two studies reported using previously developed inventories (i.e., Student Conceptions of Feedback [SCoF], Irving et al., 2007; and Assessment Experience Questionnaire [AEQ], Gibbs & Simpson, 2003), whereas #49 used scales from the Students Assessment for Learning Questionnaire [SAFLQ] (Pat-El et al., 2013), feedback utility from IFOS (#114), use of feed- back from the AEQ, and delivery of feedback from the FES (Steelman et al., 2004). In the tenth study (#128), Jellicoe and Forsythe (2019) adapted a scale previously developed with adult workers in occupational contexts (#119, Supplementary File A) and extended it to the educational context to create the Feedback in Learning Scale (FLS).
In terms of construct development, only studies develop- ing an original new scale reported involving humans in con- struct development. Understandably, those replicating a previously developed scale (#28, 49, 97, 128) tended to go directly to statistical modeling. Three studies claimed pilot validation efforts involving students (#91, 114, 124) or with teachers (#114) without specifying what method was used. One study used expert judgment to evaluate items (#111), one used cognitive interviews with students (#129), and none reported student think-aloud. Further, five reported a form of pre-testing (#98, 111, 114, 124, 129). It seems, in general, that the quality of evidence used to ensure partici- pants understand the wording of these 10 inventories is somewhat weak, but this may be a consequence of the inclu- sion criteria, which was likely to exclude studies that reported preliminary inventory development processes.

185  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
Table 1. High quality student feedback attitude inventories.
                ID            Title                                                                                              Source
                28 49 91 97   Student Conceptions of Feedback                                                                    Brown et al.,2016
                 98 111 114   Feedback Delivery & Student Use of Feedback                                                        Kyaruzi et al.,2019
                 124 128      Feedback Perceived Usefulness & Frequency                                                          Zhu & Mok,2018
                 129          Assessment Experience Questionnaire                                                                Adams et al.,2020
                              Students Perceptions on Teachers  Levels of Feedback Questionnaire Feedback Orientation Scale      Rui & Muthukrishnan,201 Linderbaum, &
                              Instructional Feedback Orientation Scale                                                            Levy,2010 King et
                              Information Avoidance Scale                                                                         al.,2009
                              Feedback in Learning Scale                                                                         Howell & Shepperd,2016 Jellicoe &
                              German Feedback Socialization Inventory                                                             Forsythe,2019 Konig, &
                                                                                                                                  Puca,2019
ID numbers>100 not found by Scopus search.
There may be such evidence in prior reports that were
excluded by the selection criteria.
None of the selected studies linked student perceptions to specific instances of feedback, whether formative or summa- tive. Only one study (#49) made clear the source of feedback (i.e., the teacher). This means only how students perceive feedback, in general, is known, without any insight as to specifics of how different timing, format, source, or content might impact perceptions.
Psychometric features
Consistent with classical test theory, nine studies used raw score scales to create mean scores, but one study (#91) used item response theory methods to calibrate item scores, allowing for the determination of a total score weighted by the difficulty and discrimination properties of each item answered correctly. All papers reported using a rating scale of between four and seven options, with five used most (i.e., 4 out of 10). Only four studies (#28, 49, 91, 129) used an even-numbered scale (Krosnick & Presser, 2009), thus avoid- ing potential ambiguity concerning the meaning of a mid- point on an odd-numbered scale (Brown & Shulruf, 2023). All but one used an agreement  response scale, a response framework that seems an appropriate basis for establishing current attitude or orientation toward a phenomenon, rather than rely on error-prone memory of recalled beliefs, opin- ions, or attitudes (Brown & Shulruf, 2023).
By selection, these ten studies all used the strongest psy- chometric methods that account for error (i.e., CFA or SEM) to test for alignment between theory and data. Nonetheless, all reported scale reliability with coefficient alpha, rather than the more appropriate Coefficient H or McDonald s omega indices (McNeish, 2018). To account for rival, alternative hypotheses, three studies (#28, 111, 129) reported explicitly testing alternative models, an important step in minimizing researcher bias in selecting a preferred model.
Four studies (#114, 124, 128, 129) replicated the fit of the model to one or more additional samples. Unfortunately, none of the studies applied nested invariance testing to establish that the model was equivalent across samples (Byrne, Shavelson, & Muth en, 1989). Two studies (#111, 124) reported test-retest reliability with acceptable replica- tion coefficients. In sum, these studies included partial evi- dence for the replicability of the statistical model for the inventory, but none presented sufficiently robust and com- prehensive evidence.
Theoretical framing
All of the studies reviewed here reported linking student perceptions of feedback to another self-reported attitude, perception, or belief. A wide range of feedback perceptions was reported. The most common in six of ten reports had to do with the utility, motivating power, or usefulness of feedback (#28, 49, 91, 97, 111, 114, 128). At least 25 other aspects of how feedback is perceived were reported,

  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
including how often or well feedback is provided (#49, 91, 97), the source of feedback (#28), emotional responses to feedback (#114, 124, 128), and the impact of feedback on self-regulatory behaviors (#98, 111, 128, 129). Each of the ten studies included investigations of convergent or diver- gent validity evidence, in some cases reporting both. Self- regulation of learning, self-efficacy, and emotional response were three constructs used to evaluate convergent and/or divergent validity evidence. The reported relationships, des- pite being variable in strength, tended to be theoretically coherent.
Self-regulation of learning
Consistent with SRL theory (Butler & Winne, 1995), plan- ning, monitoring, and adaptive reactions were all increased by greater perceived feedback usefulness and perceived feed- back frequency (#91), as was metacognitive self-regulation when students endorsed actively using and enjoying feed- back (#28). Greater endorsement of feedback utility corre- lated with the greater agreement that having one s performance appraised is useful and greater agreement that being involved in development activities is beneficial (#111). Greater intention to use feedback was associated with an internal obligation to respond to and follow up on feedback, seeing feedback as a means of knowing, and being sensitive to how others  view oneself (#111). Perceived utility of feed- back was correlated with greater communication compe- tence, intellectual flexibility, and more positive feelings about receiving classroom feedback (#114). Adaptive help- seeking within SRL involves knowing when to get help, including feedback from others on how to improve (Karabenick & Berger, 2013). Greater seeking of feedback for improvement has been shown to depend on a set of interrelated beliefs, including motivation to develop in line with feedback, accepting that feedback comes from a cred- ible source, and having greater awareness of personal strengths and needs (#128).
In contrast, undergraduates who reported avoiding feed- back information, especially about their own health or their partner, had decreased agreeableness, openness, self-esteem stability, self-esteem, state self-esteem, monitoring, curiosity, and optimism, with increased uncertainty intolerance and neuroticism (#124, Study 1). Based on a self-reported survey dealing with a university study (#129), a greater endorse- ment of effort and strategy related to feedback after success was positively correlated with coping, planning, and reduced behavioral disengagement. After failure, greater endorsement of domain-specific person and effort feedback resulted in reduced coping and increased behavioral disengagement. However, endorsement of constructive strategy feedback after failure correlated with greater planning and less behav- ioral disengagement.
Self-efficacy
Consistent with self-efficacy theory, #97 found that greater academic self-efficacy for studying, grades, and verbalizing was positively correlated with the endorsement of using
feedback and its quantity and quality. Likewise, greater self- efficacy was seen when students endorsed actively using and enjoying feedback (#28) and when the utility of feedback was endorsed (#114). Self-efficacy declined when partici- pants increased in their tendency to avoid information (#124, Study 1). Greater self-efficacy for feedback (i.e., com- petence to interpret and respond to feedback appropriately) was associated with greater (a) satisfaction and utility from professional development and appraisal sessions, (b) inten- tions to use feedback, (c) role clarity, (d) greater ratings from supervisors, and (e) self-monitoring, along with (f) less resistance to change (#111).
Emotional response
Those studies that related feedback perceptions to  satisfaction  tended to show that negative feedback was associated with negative emotions. For example, #114 reported that sensitivity to critical or negative feedback was correlated with less communication competence and more apprehension around listening and reading. Likewise, those reporting not remembering feedback had greater apprehen- sion or anxiety regarding those same two communicative skills. After success, #129 reported positive correlations between personal satisfaction and all four aspects of feed- back (i.e., general person, domain-specific person, effort, and strategy), whereas after failure the correlations with the same feedback factors were negative. Participants reported the same pattern of correlations for perceived parental satis- faction (i.e., positive in success and negative in failure). However, unsurprising considering extensive research into student achievement emotions (Vogl & Pekrun, 2016), satis- faction with feedback did not automatically imply activation or deactivation of behavior or effort.
External validation
Six studies reported a relationship between feedback percep- tions and measures of academic achievement, whereas just one study provided evidence related to behavior (#124). In terms of the relationship of feedback perceptions to aca- demic performance measures, the role of perceived utility or usefulness was consistently positive, but variable in size. Qualitative interpretations of beta values and correlations follow Cohen (1988).
Self-reported use of feedback by students had a moderate association with term GPA (#28), a small association with tested mathematics performance (#49), and a trivial associ- ation with attainment (#97). Consistent with Hattie and Timperley s (2007) framework, process and self-regulation feedback contributed moderately to language proficiency (#98). In a German study with undergraduates (#129), after success general person feedback was moderately associated with increased school grades, whereas simultaneously small increases were associated with domain-specific person, effort, and strategy feedback. In contrast, after failure, most feedback beliefs (i.e., general person, domain-specific person, effort, and general strategy) had small negative associations

187  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
with grades. A New Zealand study with undergraduates (#28) reported that term GPA decreased with perceptions of peer feedback helping (small effect size) and with feedback as tutor comments (medium effect size), suggesting that these beliefs moved responsibility for better outcomes from the individual being assessed. In a Tanzanian secondary school study (#49), students who perceived feedback as scaf- folding their work, rather than monitoring it, had a greater willingness to use feedback for better performance (large effect size).
Only one study (#124) reported associations with actual behavioral action, albeit in response to feedback about a hypothetical situation involving exposure to a fictional dis- ease (i.e., thioamine acetylase (TAA) deficiency). When undergraduates were faced with the choice to receive (or not receive) personalized health risk feedback, the choice to receive that feedback had either a moderate or large inverse association with avoiding feedback information. Greater commitment to avoiding information produced the expected choice not to receive health feedback. However, the applic- ability of this result to educational settings (e.g., knowledge about one s poor test performance) will depend on transfer studies with the inventory to test for replicability across domains.
Discussion
To ascertain what is known about the nature of student per- ceptions of feedback and whether there is evidence for the validity and impact of claims about those perceptions, a sys- tematic review of the contemporary literature was con- ducted. Papers were selected in accordance with quality indicators derived from psychometric research principles. Self-regulation of learning was used as a lens to interpret student perceptions of feedback. Just ten papers from 251 met all criteria for modeling of responses, an association of responses to theoretically relevant convergent or divergent self-reported constructs, use of multiple samples, and/or evaluation of perceptions against external measures of behavior or performance. Students who claimed greater will- ingness to value, receive, and use feedback exhibited greater self-efficacy, greater SRL, more positive emotional responses, and greater academic performance. Although actual behav- iors are not known in learning contexts, it seems highly likely that utility-oriented perceptions of feedback produce adaptive self-regulated learning actions. Feedback percep- tions clearly exist, but there is still little consistency in the data about how student belief systems concerning feedback meaningfully relate to self-regulation of learning.
This analysis focused only on ten studies that had used the strongest psychometric methods to analyze the relation- ship of a model to the data making use of formal MIMIC methods. These ten studies stand out from Supplementary File C studies for having extended a strong MIMIC-based analysis by explicitly testing multiple samples or providing validation evidence for the meaning of the self-reported per- ceptions of feedback. This review shows that between 25 and 30 distinct perceptions of feedback have been identified
suggesting clearly that student perceptions of feedback are multi-dimensional. Because feedback must fulfill both for- mative and summative functions and because human responses to feedback are complex, it is not surprising that most research has positioned student perceptions of feed- back as multidimensional. Consequently, it is unlikely a sin- gle feedback perceptions score can be justified; instead, scores for each dimension are needed.
This review finds among these statistically robust studies that, coherent with self-regulated learning theory (Boekaerts,
& Corno, 2005; Butler, & Winne, 1995; Zimmerman, 2002), the evidence for the impact or consequence of the feedback perceptions is reasonably strong for measured performance in a subject domain. The strength of the relationship to achieved performance is variable, but, consistent with self- regulated learning theory, students who perceive utility in feedback and report using it tend to do better. Nonetheless, behavioral responses of learners to feedback is practically non-existent in this data set. However, it is likely that adap- tive actions do follow productive growth-oriented intentions (Ajzen, 1991, 2005), a clear field for further detailed research what do students do with feedback, especially when performance matters? That there is evidence for a relationship between feedback perceptions and academic performance does not eliminate the possibility that academic performance arises from underlying mental ability (Neisser et al., 1996) or socio-economic resources (Sirin, 2005) rather than student perceptions of feedback. Studies that control for prior academic ability or intelligence and socio-economic status are needed to determine if the impact on achievement is simply a reflection of greater mental abilities or resources. Further, these studies reveal meaningful relations to other relevant self-reported constructs (i.e., self-regulation of learning, self-efficacy, and achievement emotions). The the- oretical basis for latent attitudinal traits as a cause of inten- tions and behaviors seems robust (Ajzen, 2005). These articles provided evidence from self-reported scores that feedback perceptions had empirical alignment with theoret- ical predictions, giving coherence and defensibility to those scales. However, this coherence with theoretical expectations may arise from a general method effect (i.e., all data are self-reported), constituting a potential alternative explan- ation for shared variance. Nevertheless, as a stepping stone toward robust validation of the meaning of feedback percep- tions, this type of evidence is necessary but not sufficient, because of the potential for biases in self-reports. Further, given that there is considerable overlap theoretically in the development of these inventories and that the learning envi- ronments are similar, it may be that the distinctions in fac- tor structures and names between the feedback perceptions inventories are quite small. As yet, no equating studies have been conducted to find an overlap between the many per- ceptions of feedback factors identified in these ten studies. Such work is important to minimize jingle-jangle (i.e., apparent similarity or dissimilarity of constructs when not actually the case) and thus ensure transparency in how the profusion of feedback inventories contributes to the field (Flake & Fried,2020).

  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
However, the evidence of the impact of feedback on stu- dent learning behaviors in these robust studies is unfortu- nately almost non-existent. By controlling the range of perceptions to a single factor (i.e., the tendency to avoid information), study #124 has provided evidence that behav- ior was associated with perception. Perceptions about the utility and use of feedback seem to matter for achievement. But which feedback perceptions matter most for psycho- logical well-being or life success is not understood, nor is it clear which learning-related or study behaviors arise from various feedback perceptions. This represents a rich oppor- tunity to move the identification of feedback perceptions into a powerful evaluation of their role and impact.
Unfortunately, of the ten highly rated studies, only three reported using multiple samples for replication (#114, 124, 129) but of those, none tested for equivalence in responses, which would normally be expected in MIMIC data analysis (Brown et al., 2017). Thus, there is a lack of robust evidence that the current inventories are robust across samples from the same population. More importantly, there is a clear need for replication research to test the validity of these invento- ries in other contexts, especially beyond WEIRD samples. Nor is it known if there are differences between cultural and ethnic groups within WEIRD populations. Hence, the cur- rent crop of most robust inventories still needs replication research to investigate whether, to what degree, and in what contexts these inventories are invariant.
All the selected studies here position student perceptions in terms of feedback in general; no information is given as to the content, type, source, or timing of the feedback all of which matter to responses. Further, it is not possible to determine whether feedback perceptions differ across aca- demic disciplines, nor, given the small sample sizes within disciplines, can it be assumed that there is homogeneity of perceptions within disciplines. Clearly, replication studies with these inventories need to specify the characteristics of the feedback and in which learning context it is studied. It may be that formative feedback from peers within primary school mathematics, for example, is perceived in a different way to feedback from the teacher in arts or humanities for a summative assessment. All of these facets matter; hence, there is as yet no robust understanding of how those fea- tures relate to how students make use of that feedback.
Further, given that humans and their educational envi- ronments are so variable, there may not be any single set of perceptions or relationships that can be replicated in all con- texts. The current sample of studies (Table 2) has little con- sistency in terms of student age, subject domain, or types of feedback. Hence, it is premature to claim that there is much certain knowledge about student perceptions of feedback across these multiple studies it seems comparisons of apples with oranges are being made to reach conclusions about fruit. Nonetheless, replication studies that control con- text-specific variability will help to validate measurements of student perceptions of feedback. Such results render instru- ments credible for use within a specific context. As yet, insufficient research using robust MIMIC methods has aimed at replicating results with robust samples from the
same population; doing this maximizes the possibility that invariance of measurement models will occur (Wu et al., 2007). This review explicitly excluded studies using qualita- tive methods on the grounds that they are prone more than psychometric studies to chance artifacts within small sam- ples. This does not mean that such methods are without merit because it is unlikely semi-structured interviews should either confirm or contradict latent theory MIMIC survey results (Harris & Brown, 2010). Nonetheless, it seems essential to understand how students perceive feedback, especially in the specificity of how and when it is imple- mented, and how they think they should respond to it. Learner self-reports provide insight into how students understand what feedback means, how it makes them feel, and what they claim to have done with it.
Given the importance of socio-cognitive theory (Bandura, 1986) to educational interventions and the agency learners have (Harris et al., 2018), it is impossible to ignore the like- lihood that feedback will not work as intended by the feed- back giver without the active awareness and engagement of feedback recipients. This is essential if educational interven- tions are to be devised, tested, and promulgated into teach- ing. It is not known if student perceptions of feedback can be changed from something to be rejected or ignored to something with which they can actively engage. Weak evi- dence exists that feedback literacy responses can increase through interventions (Little et al., 2023), but that scoping review showed that evidence of behavioral changes did not exist. However, there is evidence that students can be taught to regulate their own learning (Kirschner & Hendrick, 2020), hence it is likely students can be taught to actively engage with and use feedback for growth rather than avoid it for ego-protection or enhancement. Consequently, without controlled pre- and post- intervention data, it cannot be assumed that educators can change student perceptions of feedback, or that such changes will lead to better behavior or outcomes. But this remains clearly a need in the field.
Research into student perceptions of feedback must become dissatisfied with replicating general perceptions, otherwise, the influence of feedback timing, format, source, or content upon subsequent behavior or performance will remain uncertain. The psychometric methodology defines what those studies must look like and how they are to be conducted. Fortunately, given the size of education systems, it is possible to conduct large-scale psychometric research
while associating it with specific contexts.
Limitations of this review
A limitation of the search reported here, considering its suc- cess with Scopus, is that a revised search in Web of Science was not carried out. This may not be a problem because Elsevier s Scopus database is more comprehensive in its inclusion of psychology and education journals than Clarivate Analytics  Web of Science (Stahlschmidt & Stephen, 2020). Nonetheless, future researchers may wish to include both Web of Science and Digital Science s Dimensions database, which is a new database that is based

189  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
on open-access data sources and is thus even more compre- hensive in Psychology and Educational Sciences (Stahlschmidt & Stephen, 2020).
There are potentially interesting studies among those excluded from our analysis, primarily because they did not include multiple samples or provide validation with the out- come or behavioral measures. Some of the studies in Supplementary File C had linkages to either behavioral or academic outcomes. Additionally, there were 16 studies in Supplementary File C that used CFA and 12 that had sam- ple sizes 500. Readers are encouraged to review these stud- ies to determine whether to conduct further validation and replication studies.
A potential limitation to this paper is our focus on MIMIC-derived methods, without explicitly including other psychometric methods in the search strategy. It may be that including IRT and Rasch as a search term would produce different results. It may also be that there are considerable insights into student perceptions of feedback in the various qualitative studies and non-MIMIC studies listed in the three Supplementary Files. This limitation means that there may well be other important perceptions which have not been subjected to the methodological scrutiny used in this review.
Recommendations for future research
This review makes clear that most research in the field of student perceptions of feedback fails to meet psychometric standards. This raises doubts about the replicability and gen- eralizability of much of what is claimed concerning how stu- dents perceive feedback. The review shows that researchers are increasingly using strong methods of psychometrics (Supplementary File C has 16 papers with CFA methods). However, efforts are still needed to include independent val- idation measures and replication samples to move the field out of the current morass of small sample, highly subjective designs, and analyses (see Supplemental File A). Adopting the psychometric framework would reduce the chance arti- facts associated with small-scale, exploratory studies or those which do not exploit the MIMIC framework.
Additionally, almost no high-quality research has been done in education that links perceptions of feedback to sub- sequent behaviors, which is a key objective of psychological science. Such research provides independent validation of the meaning and consequence of student perceptions. However, in calling for research with behaviors, this does not imply that a focus on behaviors alone is appropriate. Learners are agentic, autonomous beings and their experi- ence of education is not just a humanistic concern. Without awareness of how learners experience feedback, educators will not be able to improve, change, or maximize the effect- iveness of their feedback.
However, for student perceptions of feedback research to reach its potential value several important changes are needed to increase the strength of evidence concerning stu- dent perceptions of feedback. Exploiting psychometric industry methods to minimize alternative explanations for
results will strengthen future research. The following psy- chometric methods are needed to mitigate threats to the val- idity of self-report measures so that research is more powerful. To minimize the researcher s halo  of expecta- tions, there needs to be evidence that respondents under- stand survey stimuli in the same manner as the researcher intended. Hence, direct insights from student focus groups, cognitive interviews, or think-aloud processes will give con- fidence that the instrument has face validity. Researchers need to use multiple procedures to mitigate chance artifacts in designing items, choosing samples, and arguing for factor structures. To do that, multiple indicators are needed for each dimension or factor to strengthen conclusions about the valence and strength of those perceptions. The strongest statistical tests of factor structure (i.e., CFA) need to be applied to ensure robust mapping of items to constructs and multiple samples from the same population need to be tested to demonstrate that the model is invariant within a population.
To avoid making false generalizations concerning how students perceive all feedback, replication research needs to anchor student perceptions to specific features of feedback in terms of its timing, source, style, and content. The field in general needs to extend sampling beyond higher educa- tion to cover more age levels, subject domains, and cultural contexts. To maximize the meaningfulness of student per- ceptions of feedback and to mitigate against social desirabil- ity in self-report data, links to independent variables, such as academic outcomes or uses of feedback, need to be included using robust methods (e.g., SEM) embedded in the MIMIC framework. Experiments that test the potential to modify negative perceptions and validate that this leads to positive changes in behaviors and outcomes are needed. To avoid confusion in the field, systematic conceptual and empirical equating studies are needed to identify the prob- able overlap among the many perception factors already extant. Heeding these principles will enable researchers to robustly claim that their surveys have minimized chance artifacts, increased the face and construct validity of their instruments, and shown that student perceptions matter to behaviors associated with learning. Future researchers should consider these principles when initiating new research in the field of student perceptions of feedback so that the list of high-quality studies in the future will be greater than ten.
Conclusion
This review clearly identified a small number of high-quality measures of student perceptions of feedback. From these studies, a reasonably robust understanding was obtained that student perceptions of the utility and their use of feed- back leads to greater academic performance. Students who believe in and report using feedback do better academically, in accordance with a recent meta-analysis of the power of feedback (Wisniewski et al., 2019). Utility and use percep- tions of feedback matter to performance and align well with the theory around competence and control beliefs, but it is an assumption that this happens through self-regulatory

  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
behaviors. Nonetheless, little is known about how feedback perceptions relate to independently measured behaviors. Additionally, little is known about contextual, cultural, or disciplinary patterns in how feedback is perceived. Neither is it certain how any specific form, timing, or source of feed- back relates to self-perceptions of competence or confidence, behavior, or academic performance. As a starting point, researchers ought to consider using the ten inventories described in this review.
The advantage of using psychometric approaches to accessing the mind of the learner is that these methods for- mally address the power of error and the possibility of chance when obtaining insights from humans. Structured item sets, response formats, pre-specified dimensionality designs, multiple robust methods to establish measurement properties, and multiple methods to establish the validity and impact of those dimensions address weaknesses in less structured research into human beliefs and attitudes. Without psychometric methods, knowledge about student perceptions of feedback would be dependent on small sam- ples of highly interpretive analyses prone to chance artifacts in the data set or to theoretical perspectives that cannot be tested, reproduced, or replicated. Hence, the psychometric discipline provides strong norms and conventions for defin- ing and measuring a latent construct and for validating it. Additionally, coherent with a scientific approach, theories that fail in weakly designed studies are immune from rejec- tion. In contrast, with robust methods, it is possible to dis- cover that some theories are less powerful than initially argued (e.g., the now small impact of a growth mindset; Yeager et al., 2019). Without psychometric approaches, it will not be possible to know reliably what humans think, feel, or believe and then how they might use our educational practices. With the methods recommended here, researchers will be able to make robust claims by reducing threats to the validity of their claims.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to acknowledge the critical feedback provided by Prof. Naomi Winstone (Surrey) and Dr Rob Nash (Aston) through- out the drafting of this manuscript. Prof. Jan-Willem Strijbos is thanked for his suggestions.
Author contributions
Gavin T. L. Brown: Conceptualization; Formal analysis; Funding acquisition; Methodology; Project administration; Supervision; Writing —original draft; Writing —review & editing
Anran Zhao: Data curation; Formal analysis; Investigation; Validation; Writing —review & editing
Disclosure statement
No potential conflict of interest was reported by the author(s).
Funding
This work was supported by the Faculty of Education & Social Work, The University of Auckland to the first author to support the 2nd
author. The Faculty of Education & Social Work played no part in the study design, data collection, analysis and interpretation of data, in the writing of the report, or in the decision to submit the article for publication.
ORCID
Gavin T. L. Brown http://orcid.org/0000-0002-8352-2351 Anran Zhao http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6813-8995
References
 5inventory retained for review in Table 1
  Adams, A.-M., Wilson, H., Money, J., Palmer-Conn, S., & Fearn, J.
(2020). Student engagement with feedback and attainment: the role of academic self-efficacy. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 45(2), 317—329. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2019. 1640184
Ajzen, I. (1991). The theory of planned behavior. Organizational
Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 50(2), 179—211. https://doi. org/10.1016/0749-5978(91)90020-T
Ajzen, I. (2005). Attitudes, personality and behavior. (2nd ed.). Open
University Press.
Allport, G. W. (1935). Attitudes. In C. Murchison (Ed.), A Handbook
of Social Psychology(pp. 798—844). Clark University Press.
Ashford, S. J., Stobbeleir, K. D., & Nujella, M. (2016). To seek or not
to seek: Is that the only question? Recent developments in feedback- seeking literature. Annual Review of Organizational Psychology and Organizational Behavior, 3(1), 213—239. https://doi.org/10.1146/ annurev-orgpsych-041015-062314
Bandura, A. (1986). Social foundations of thought and action: A social
cognitive theory. Prentice-Hall.
Boekaerts, M., & Corno, L. (2005). Self-regulation in the classroom: A
perspective on assessment and intervention. Applied Psychology,
54(2), 199—231. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1464-0597.2005.00205.x Borsboom, D. (2005). Measuring the mind: Conceptual issues in con-
temporary psychometrics. Cambridge University Press.
Borsboom, D., Mellenbergh, G. J., & van Heerden, J. (2004). The con-
cept of validity. Psychological Review, 111(4), 1061—1071. https://doi. org/10.1037/0033-295X.111.4.1061
Brown, G. T. L., Harris, L. R., O Quin, C., & Lane, K. E. (2017).
Using multi-group confirmatory factor analysis to evaluate cross- cultural research: Identifying and understanding non-invariance. International Journal of Research & Method in Education, 40(1), 66—90. https://doi.org/10.1080/1743727X.2015.1070823
Brown, G. T. L., Peterson, E. R., & Irving, S. E. (2009). Beliefs that
make a difference: Adaptive and maladaptive self-regulation in stu- dents  conceptions of assessment. In D. M. McInerney, G. T. L. Brown, & G. A. D. Liem (Eds.),Student perspectives on assessment: What students can tell us about assessment for learning (pp. 159— 186). Information Age Publishing.
  Brown, G. T. L., Peterson, E. R., & Yao, E. S. (2016). Student concep-
tions of feedback: Impact on self-regulation, self-efficacy, and aca- demic achievement. The British Journal of Educational Psychology, 86(4), 606—629. https://doi.org/10.1111/bjep.12126
Brown, G. T. L., & Shulruf, B. (2023). Response option design in sur-
veys. In L. R. Ford & T. A. Scandura (Eds.),The SAGE Handbook of Survey Development and Application. Sage.
Bryant, F. B., & Yarnold, P. R. (1995). Principal-components analysis and exploratory and confirmatory factor analysis. In L. G. Grimm & P. R. Yarnold (Eds.), Reading and understanding multivariate statis- tics (pp. 99—136). APA.
Butler, D. L., & Winne, P. H. (1995). Feedback and self-regulated
learning: A theoretical synthesis. Review of Educational Research, 65(3), 245—281. https://doi.org/10.3102/00346543065003245

191  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
Byrne, B. M., Shavelson, R. J., & Muth en, B. (1989). Testing for the
equivalence of factor covariance and mean structures —the issue of partial measurement invariance. Psychological Bulletin, 105(3), 456— 466. https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-2909.105.3.456
Campbell, D. T., & Fiske, D. W. (1959). Convergent and discriminant
validation by the multi-trait multi-method matrix. Psychological Bulletin, 56(2), 81—105. https://doi.org/10.1037/h0046016
Carpenter, S. K., Witherby, A. E., & Tauber, S. K. (2020). On students 
(Mis)judgments of learning and teaching effectiveness. Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition, 9(2), 137—151. https:// doi.org/10.1016/j.jarmac.2019.12.009
Cizek, G. J. (2020). Validity: An integrated approach to test score mean-
ing and use. Routledge.
Cohen, J. (1988). Statistical power analysis for the behavioral sciences.
(2nd ed.). Routledge.
Crafts, L. W., & Gilbert, R. W. (1935). The effect of knowledge of
results on maze learning and retention. Journal of Educational
Psychology, 26(3), 177—187. https://doi.org/10.1037/h0061908 Cronbach, L. J. (1988). Five perspectives on the validity argument. In
H. Wainer & H. Braun (Eds.), Test validity (pp. 3—17). Lawrence Erlbaum.
Cudeck, R., & MacCallum, R. C. (Eds.) (2007). Factor analysis at 100:
Historical developments and future directions. LEA.
De Stobbeleir, K. E. M., Ashford, S. J., & Buyens, D. (2011). Self-regu-
lation of creativity at work: The role of feedback-seeking behavior in creative performance. Academy of Management Journal, 54(4), 811— 831. https://doi.org/10.5465/amj.2011.64870144
DiStefano, C., Zhu, M., & M^ındril a, D. (2009). Understanding and
using factor scores: Considerations for the applied researcher. Practical Assessment, Research & Evaluation, 14(20), 1—11. https:// doi.org/10.7275/da8t-4g52
Dunning, D., Heath, C., & Suls, J. M. (2004). Flawed self-assessment:
Implications for health, education, and the workplace. Psychological Science in the Public Interest, 5(3), 69—106. https://doi.org/10.1111/j. 1529-1006.2004.00018.x
Embretson, S. E., & Reise, S. P. (2000). Item Response Theory for
Psychologists. LEA.
Esarey, J., & Valdes, N. (2020). Unbiased, reliable, and valid student
evaluations can still be unfair. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 45(8), 1106—1120. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2020. 1724875
Fan, X., Miller, B. C., Park, K.-E., Winward, B. W., Christensen, M.,
Grotevant, H. D., & Tai, R. H. (2006). An exploratory study about
inaccuracy and invalidity in adolescent self-report surveys. Field
Methods, 18(3), 223—244. https://doi.org/10.1177/152822X06289161 Fatima, S., Ali, M., & Saad, M. I. (2022). The effect of students  con-
ceptions of feedback on academic self-efficacy and self-regulation:
evidence from higher education in Pakistan. Journal of Applied
Research in Higher Education, 14(1), 180—199. https://doi.org/10.
1108/JARHE-07-2020-0209
Fong, C. J., & Schallert, D. L. (2023). Feedback to the future :
Advancing motivational and emotional perspectives in feedback research. Educational Psychologist, 1—16. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 00461520.2022.2134135
Flake, J. K., & Fried, E. I. (2020). Measurement schmeasurement:
Questionable measurement practices and how to avoid them. Advances in Methods and Practices in Psychological Science, 3(4), 456—465. https://doi.org/10.1177/2515245920952393
Gibbs, G., & Simpson, C. (2003). Measuring the response of students
to assessment: The assessment experience questionnaire. Paper Presented at the 11th Improving Student Learning Symposium.
Guo, W. (2020). Grade-level differences in teacher feedback and stu-
dents  self-regulated learning. Frontiers in Psychology, 11, 783. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2020.00783
Harris, L. R., & Brown, G. T. L. (2010). Mixing interview and question-
naire methods: Practical problems in aligning data. Practical Assessment, Research and Evaluation, 15(1), 2. https://doi.org/10. 7275/959j-ky83
Harris, L. R., & Brown, G. T. L. (2018). Understanding and supporting
student self-assessment. Routledge.
Harris, L. R., Brown, G. T. L., & Dargusch, J. (2018). Not playing the
game: student assessment resistance as a form of agency. The Australian Educational Researcher, 45(1), 125—140. https://doi.org/ 10.1007/s13384-018-0264-0
Hattie, J., & Timperley, H. (2007). The power of feedback. Review of
Educational Research, 77(1), 81—112. https://doi.org/10.3102/ 003465430298487
Hattie, J., Hodis, F. A., & Kang, S. H. K. (2020). Theories of motiv-
ation: Integration and ways forward. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 61, 101865. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cedpsych.2020. 101865
Henrich, J., Heine, S. J., & Norenzayan, A. (2010). The weirdest people
in the world? The Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 33(2—3), 61—135. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0140525X0999152X
Hern andez Rivero, V. M., Bonilla, P. J. S., & Alonso, J. J. S. (2021).
Feedback and self-regulated learning in higher education. Revista de Investigacion Educativa, 39(1), 227—248. https://doi.org/10.6018/rie. 423341
  Howell, J. L., & Shepperd, J. A. (2016). Establishing an information
avoidance scale.Psychological Assessment, 28(12), 1695—1708. https:// doi.org/10.1037/pas0000315
International Test Commission. ( 2017). The ITC guidelines for translat-
ing and adapting tests. https://tinyurl.com/t6z2v42n
Irving, S. E., Peterson, E. R., & Brown, G. T. L. (2007). Student
Conceptions of Feedback: A study of New Zealand secondary stu- dents. Paper Presented to the Biennial Conference of the European Association for Research in Learning and Instruction, Budapest, Hungary.
  Jellicoe, M., & Forsythe, A. (2019). The development and validation
of the feedback in learning scale (FLS).Frontiers in Education, 4, 84. https://doi.org/10.3389/feduc.2019.00084
Jones, L. V., & Thissen, D. (2006). A history and overview of psycho-
metrics. In C. R. Rao & S. Sinharay (Eds.),Handbook of statistics (Vol. 26, pp. 1—27). Elsevier.
Joreskog, K. G., & Goldberger, A. S. (1975). Estimation of a model
with multiple indicators and multiple causes of a single latent vari- able. Journal of the American Statistical Association, 70(351a), 631— 639. https://doi.org/10.1080/01621459.1975.10482485
Joreskog, K. G., & van Thillo, M. (1972). LISREL: A general computer
program for estimating a linear structural equation system involving multiple indicators of unmeasured variables (RB-72-56). Educational Testing Service.
Joughin, G., Boud, D., Dawson, P., & Tai, J. (2021). What can higher
education learn from feedback seeking behaviour in organisations? Implications for feedback literacy. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 46(1), 80—91. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938. 2020.1733491
Karabenick, S. A., & Berger, J.-L. (2013). Help seeking as a self-regu-
lated learning strategy. In Applications of self-regulated learning across diverse disciplines: A tribute to Barry J. Zimmerman(pp. 237— 261). Information Age Publishing.
Karabenick, S. A., Woolley, M. E., Friedel, J. M., Ammon, B. V.,
Blazevski, J., Bonney, C. R., Groot, E. D., Gilbert, M. C., Musu, L., Kempler, T. M., & Kelly, K. L. (2007). Cognitive processing of self- report items in educational research: Do they think what we mean? Educational Psychologist, 42(3), 139—151. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 00461520701416231
Kim, S.-I., Lee, M.-J., Chung, Y., & Bong, M. (2010). Comparison of
brain activation during norm-referenced versus criterion-referenced feedback: The role of perceived competence and performance- approach goals. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 35(2), 141— 152. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cedpsych.2010.04.002
  King, P. E., Schrodt, P., & Weisel, J. J. (2009). The instructional feed-
back orientation scale: Conceptualizing and validating a new meas- ure for assessing perceptions of instructional feedback. Communication Education, 58(2), 235—261. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 03634520802515705
Kirschner, P. A., & Hendrick, C. (2020). Why independent learning is
not a good way to become an independent learner. In P. A. Kirschner & C. Hendrick (Eds.), How learning happens: Seminal

  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
works in educational psychology and what they mean in practice(pp. Nieminen, J. H., & Carless, D. (2022). Feedback literacy: a critical 66—73). Routledge. review of an emerging concept. Higher Education, https://doi.org/10.
  Konig, N., & Puca, R. M. (2019). The German feedback socialization 1007/s10734-022-00895-9
inventory. European Journal of Psychological Assessment, 35(4), 544— Panadero, E., & Lipnevich, A. A. (2022). A review of feedback models
554. https://doi.org/10.1027/1015-5759/a000409 and typologies: Towards an integrative model of feedback elements. Krosnick, J. A., & Presser, S. (2009). Question and questionnaire design. Educational Research Review, 35, 100416. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
Elsevier. edurev.2021.100416
  Kyaruzi, F., Strijbos, J. W., Ufer, S., & Brown, G. T. L. (2019). Pat-El, R. J., Tillema, H., Segers, M., & Vedder, P. (2013). Validation of
Students  formative assessment perceptions, feedback use and math- Assessment for Learning Questionnaires for teachers and students.
ematics performance in secondary schools in Tanzania. Assessment The British Journal of Educational Psychology, 83(Pt 1), 98—113.
in Education: Principles, Policy and Practice, 26(3), 278—302. https:// https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2044-8279.2011.02057.x
doi.org/10.1080/0969594X.2019.1593103 Philips, D. C., & Burbules, N. C. (2000). Postpositivism and educational Leckey, J., & Neill, N. (2001). Quantifying quality: The importance of research. Rowman & Littlefield Publishers.
student feedback. Quality in Higher Education, 7(1), 19—32. https:// Ramaprasad, A. (1983). On the definition of feedback. Behavioral doi.org/10.1080/13538320120045058 Science, 28(1), 4—13. https://doi.org/10.1002/bs.3830280103
  Linderbaum, B. A., & Levy, P. E. (2010). The development and valid- Richardson, J. T. E. (2005). Instruments for obtaining student feedback:
ation of the feedback orientation scale (FOS). Journal of A review of the literature. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Management, 36(6), 1372—1405. https://doi.org/10.1177/014920631 Education, 30(4), 387—415. https://doi.org/10.1080/026029305000 0373145  99193
Lindsay, D. S. (2015). Replication in psychological science. Rui, Y., & Muthukrishnan, P. (2019). Growth mindset and students 
Psychological Science, 26(12), 1827—1832. https://doi.org/10.1177/ perception of their English Language teachers  feedback as predictors
0956797615616374 of language proficiency of the EFL learners. Asian EFL Journal, Lipnevich, A. A., & Panadero, E. (2021). A review of feedback models 23(3), 32—60. https://www.asian-efl-journal.com/main-editions-new/
and theories: Descriptions, definitions, and conclusions. Frontiers in 2019-main-journal/volume-23-issue-3-2-2019/index.htm
Education, 6, 100416.https://doi.org/10.3389/feduc.2021.720195 Schacter, D. L. (1999). The seven sins of memory: Insights from psych- Lipnevich, A. A., Berg, D. A. G., & Smith, J. K. (2016). Toward a ology and cognitive neuroscience. The American Psychologist, 54(3),
model of student response to feedback. In G. T. L. Brown & L. R. 182—203. https://doi.org/10.1037/0003-066X.54.3.182
Harris (Eds.), The handbook of human and social conditions in Sirin, S. R. (2005). Socioeconomic status and academic achievement: A
assessment(pp. 169—185). Routledge. meta-analytic review of research. Review of Educational Research, Little, T., Dawson, P., Boud, D., & Tai, J. (2023). Can students  feed- 75(3), 417—453. https://doi.org/10.3102/00346543075003417
back literacy be improved? A scoping review of interventions. Stahlschmidt, S., & Stephen, D. (2020). Comparison of Web of Science,
Scopus and Dimensions databases (KB Forschungspoolprojekt 2020). Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 1—14. https://doi.org/
https://bibliometrie.info/downloads/DZHW-Comparison-DIM-SCP-
10.1080/02602938.2023.2177613
Lundgren, E., & Eklof, H. (2020). Within-item response processes as WOS.PDF
Steelman, L. A., Levy, P. E., & Snell, A. F. (2004). The feedback envir- indicators of test-taking effort and motivation. Educational Research
onment scale: Construct definition, measurement, and validation. and Evaluation, 26(5—6), 275—301. https://doi.org/10.1080/13803611.
Educational and Psychological Measurement, 64(1), 165—184. https:// 2021.1963940 doi.org/10.1177/0013164403258440
Makel, M. C., Plucker, J. A., & Hegarty, B. (2012). Replications in Thorndike, E. L. (1920). A constant error in psychological ratings.
psychology research. Perspectives on Psychological Science, 7(6), 537— Journal of Applied Psychology, 4(1), 25—29. https://doi.org/10.1037/ 542. https://doi.org/10.1177/1745691612460688 h0071663
Marsh, H. W., Hau, K.-T., Artelt, C., Baumert, J., & Peschar, J. L. Van der Kleij, F. M., & Lipnevich, A. A. (2021). Student perceptions of
(2006). OECD s brief self-report measure of educational psychology s assessment feedback: a critical scoping review and call for research. most useful affective constructs: Cross-cultural, psychometric com- Educational Assessment, Evaluation and Accountability, 33(2), 345— parisons across 25 countries. International Journal of Testing, 6(4), 373. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11092-020-09331-x
311—360. https://doi.org/10.1207/s15327574ijt0604_1 van Someren, M. W., Barnard, Y. F., & Sandberg, J. A. C. (1994). The McCoach, D. B., Gable, R. K., & Madura, J. P. (2013). Instrument think aloud method: A practical guide to modelling cognitive proc-
development in the affective domain: school and corporate applica- esses. Academic Press.
tions. Springer. Vogl, E., & Pekrun, R. (2016). Emotions that matter to achievement: McNeish, D. (2018). Thanks coefficient alpha, we ll take it from here. Student feelings about assessment. In G. T. L. Brown & L. R. Harris
Psychological Methods, 23(3), 412—433. https://doi.org/10.1037/ (Eds.), Handbook of human and social conditions in assessment(pp.
met0000144 111—128). Routledge.
Messick, S. (1989). Validity. In R. L. Linn (Ed.),Educational measure- Williams, J., & Kane, D. (2008). Exploring the national student survey:
ment (3rd ed., pp. 13—103). MacMillan. Assessment and feedback issues. https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/docu- Meyer, G. M., Marco-Pallar es, J., Boulinguez, P., & Sescousse, G. ment?repid=rep1&type=pdf&doi=
(2021). Electrophysiological underpinnings of reward processing: c38acc136c17c130a64845c31cef1d2c42385491
Are we exploiting the full potential of EEG? NeuroImage, 242, Wise, S. L., & Cotten, M. R. (2009). Test-taking effort and score valid-
118478.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2021.118478 ity: The influence of student conceptions of assessment. In D. M. Murphy, P. K., & Alexander, P. A. (2000). A motivated exploration of McInerney, G. T. L. Brown, & G. A. D. Liem (Eds.),Student per-
motivation terminology. Contemporary Educational Psychology, spectives on assessment: What students can tell us about assessment
25(1), 3—53. https://doi.org/10.1006/ceps.1999.1019 for learning (pp. 187—205). Information Age Publishing.
Nicol, D. J., & Macfarlane-Dick, D. (2006). Formative assessment and Wisniewski, B., Zierer, K., & Hattie, J. (2019). The power of feedback
self-regulated learning: A model and seven principles of good feed- revisited: A meta-analysis of educational feedback research.Frontiers
back practice. Studies in Higher Education, 31(2), 199—218. https:// in Psychology, 10, 3087.https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2019.03087
doi.org/10.1080/03075070600572090 Wu, A. D., Li, Z., & Zumbo, B. D. (2007). Decoding the meaning of Neisser, U., Boodoo, G., Bouchard, T. J., Jr., Boykin, A. W., Brody, N., factorial invariance and updating the practice of multi-group con-
Ceci, S. J., Halpern, D. E., Loehlin, J. C., Perloff, R., Sternberg, R. J., & firmatory factor analysis: A demonstration with TIMSS data.
Urbina, S. (1996). Intelligence: Knowns and unknowns. American Practical Assessment, Research & Evaluation, 12(3), 1—26. https://doi.
Psychologist, 51(2), 77—101.https://doi.org/10.1037/0003-066X.51.2.77 org/10.7275/mhqa-cd89

  G. T. L. BROWN AND A. ZHAO
Yan, Z., & Brown, G. T. L. (2017). A cyclical self-assessment process:
Towards a model of how students engage in self-assessment. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 42(8), 1247—1262. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2016.1260091
Yan, Z., Brown, G. T. L., Lee, J. C.-K., & Qiu, X.-L. (2020). Student
self-assessment: Why do they do it? Educational Psychology, 40(4), 509—532. https://doi.org/10.1080/01443410.2019.1672038
Yeager, D. S., Hanselman, P., Walton, G. M., Murray, J. S., Crosnoe, R., Muller, C., Tipton, E., Schneider, B., Hulleman, C. S., Hinojosa, C. P., Paunesku, D., Romero, C., Flint, K., Roberts, A., Trott, J., Iachan, R., Buontempo, J., Yang, S. M., Carvalho, C. M.,  Dweck, C. S. (2019). A national experiment reveals where a growth mindset
improves achievement. Nature, 573(7774), 364—369. https://doi.org/ 10.1038/s41586-019-1466-y
  Zhu, J., & Mok, M. M. C. (2018). Predicting primary students  self-
regulated learning by their prior achievement, interest, personal best
goal orientation and teacher feedback. Educational Psychology, 38(9),
1106—1128. https://doi.org/10.1080/01443410.2018.1497775 Zimmerman, B. J. (2002). Becoming a self-regulated learner: An over-
view. Theory into Practice, 41(2), 64—70. https://doi.org/10.1207/
s15430421tip4102_2
Zumbo, B. D. (2009). Validity as contextualized and pragmatic explan-
ation, and its implications for validation practice. In R. Lissitz (Ed.), The concept of validity(pp. 65—82). Information Age Publishers.
