Unethical and Evitable:

THE EPIDEMIC OF

www.changemag.org

Academic Dishonesty
and How We End It

www.changemag.org

By Jason M. Stephens 

www.changemag.org

Ep-i-dem-ic . . . affecting or tending to affect a dis- proportionately large number of individuals within a population, community, or region at the same time… excessively prevalent; contagious.
E(and in every other country in which it’pidemic is an apt adjectithe problem of academic dishonestyif they have cheated in the past years been studied) report ve for describing, a “dispro. When asked -
portionately large number” (i.e., the majority) of 
secondary and tertiary students in the United States having done so (Murdock, Stephens, & Grotewiel, 2016). 
The problem of academic dishonesty has been labeled “epidemic” since the 1980s, but research evidence suggests it had been so for many decades (Atkins & Atkins, 1936; Bowers, 1964). In addition to being “excessively prevalent,” academic dishonesty is also “contagious”—seeing others cheat significantly increases one’s likelihood of doing so (Gino, Ayal, & Ariely, 2009).
To these two defining characteristics of an epidemic, common and contagious, I would add a third: corrosive. Academic dishonesty not only undermines students’ learning and the validity of its assessment but also their moral devel- opment and character. Students who cheat in high school are significantly more likely cheat at university and more likely to be dishonest with their spouses and employers in adult- hood (Josephson Institute of Ethics, 2009).
With this mind, those of us in education—at all levels and in all roles—might ask ourselves two basic questions: Why do so many students cheat? And what, if anything, can been done to abate the seemingly intractable problem? In this article, I will answer both questions as I argue that academic dishonesty is natural and normal, while also unethical and evitable. In doing so, I hope not only to offer faculty, admin- istrators, and policy makers a well-grounded explanation of the nature of cheating but also a clear articulation of why it’s wrong and how we might end the epidemic.
Natural . . . Existing in or derived from nature; not made or caused by humankind. … In accordance with the nature of, or circumstances surrounding, someone or something. …
Jason M. Stephens (jm.stephens@auckland. ac.nz) is an Associate Professor in the School 
of Learning, Development, and Professional Practice in the Faculty of Education and Social Work at The University of Auckland. He is also the Lead Educator of Academic 
Integrity: Values, Skills, Action—a FutureLearn MOOC.
Deception is a feature of nature, not a flaw in it. The capacity to deceive (to conceal, mislead, cheat, trick, etc.) is a product of natural selection. It is a key mechanism of evolution, whereby random mutations that prove advanta- geous to survival or reproductive success are passed on to offspring (Darwin, 1859). As I have described elsewhere (Stephens, 2017, p. 111), “from plants posing as inviting insects to snakes wearing a sleeve of colors to masquerade as poisonous,” the use of deception has proved advantageous (even essential) to the survival and reproduction of numer- ous species (flora and fauna alike).
In short, humans did not invent deception, nor are we im- mune from the selective advantages that it can provide. As with all other species, we do so because it increased the sur- vival and/or reproductive success of our hominin forebears (see Bowlby, 1969, p. 64). We Homo sapiens are born with the same basic hardware and operating systems that helped Homo erectus and habilis to run and replicate.
The myriad ways in which we humans deceive (and our proclivity to do so) is well documented in the literature. Gabor’s (1994) Everybody Does it! and Callahan’s (2004) The Cheating Culture offer robust accounts of our tendency to lie, cheat, and betray to get ahead. And it’s not just “bad” people. Empirical research dating back to Hartshorne and May’s (1928) seminal Studies in Deceit has made it clear everyone is susceptible to lying and cheating. Some might 
In Short
• Academic dishonesty is epidemic: The majority of students, secondary and tertiary, report cheating in the past year, many despite believing it is wrong.
• The use of deception is natural: A product of natural selection, adaptive to survival and success.
• Deception is also normal: Its use emerges in early childhood and develops in complexity along with other highly adaptive cognitive and social capacities.
• Academic dishonesty is unethical: It is morally wrong because it is dishonest, unfair, and harmful, undercutting the achievement and prospects of honest students.
• The epidemic of academic dishonesty is evitable: While there may always be a few students who cheat, those of us responsible for their education are capable of creating “cultures of integrity” where the vast majority do not do so.

www.changemag.org

engage in the latter but not the former, some only in certain  “alternative facts.” As summarized in Lee’s (2013) Little situations or circumstances, but almost everyone seems to do  Liars, the telling of lies emerges during the preschool years one or other (if not both) sometimes. and develops rapidly (in both use and complexity) with age. 
From an evolutionary perspective, academic miscon- Our lies are quite simple at first and not well concealed, but duct is best understood as a contemporary, context-specific  as our brains develop and we are better able to control our expression of a highly developed capacity to deceive in  minds and read others, we become more skilled in the art of order to survive and succeed. That is, for 21st-century hu- the lie (Talwar, Gordon, & Lee, 2007).
man beings educational attainment has positive health and  The experimental method used by Lee and many others economic benefits (Organization for Economic Cooperation  to assess verbal deception among children begins by tempt- and Development, 2017). Understood in this context, it is  ing them to cheat. For example, children were tempted to only “natural” that students might cheat as a means to gain  peek at an answer (to a trivia question) or behind a veil to 
a competitive advantage (e.g., higher scores, grades, and  reveal the identity of a hidden toy when an adult experi- rankings) or preserve resources (e.g., time and energy) in a  menter has temporarily left the room. In one study (Talwar domain that has direct bearing on their social survival and  & Lee, 2008), 82 percent of 3- to 8-year-olds peeked when success. instructed not to do so, and 64 percent of those that peeked lied about doing so. Importantly, there were no significant 
differences based on gender or age—boys and girls at all 
Nor-mal . . . according with, constituting, or not devi- ages did so in equivalent numbers. In short, the emergence ating from a norm, rule, or principle… and use of deception in early childhood is normal—oc-
curring naturally along with other developmental capaci-
There are several ways in which deception, and aca- ties—and not the mark of “mental illness” or incorrigible 
demic dishonesty specifically, is “normal.” In a basic sense,  deviance.
deception is normal because it “occurs naturally” in accord  However, just because something is does not mean it 
with the principle of natural selection. In humans, the use of  ought to be.
deception emerges around age 2 or 3 in conjunction with the  
emergence of theory of mind capacities such as the ability  Un-eth-i-cal . . . not conforming to a high moral stan-
to attribute mental states—belief/doubt, desire/fear, pride/ dard: morally wrong.
shame, and the like—to ourselves or others, and recognize 
the two as potentially different. These capacities are the 
foundation of selfhood and interpersonal relationships; they  Despite being natural and normal, the use of deception enable us to understand ourselves as individuals as well as  among humans can be (and most often is) unethical. This the perspectives of others and give us the ability to empa- creates an interesting paradox, whereby two ostensibly 
thize with them. “good” attributes (natural and normal) are associated with a 
These capacities, however, can also be readily employed  putatively “bad” one (unethical).
to deceive others. They allow us to realize, for example, that  The incongruity has sometimes been resolved by presup- we could do something dishonest, unfair, or even harmful  posing that human nature at its core is unsavory—selfish and that is “out of sight and out of mind” of others. Additionally,  sinful—and in need of restraint. This “top-down” view of these capacities enable us to lie about our misdeeds to impart  morality is the basis of many religious and Enlightenment 
a false belief in the mind of others, often furnished with  perspectives, where either God or reason provides a “thin veneer” of morality, “hiding an otherwise selfish 
and brutish nature” (de Waal, 2009, p. 6). However, the paradox can also be resolved with a “bottom- up” view of morality that holds a less dim view of human nature, increasingly supported by empirical evidence from primatology (Brosnan & de Waal, 2014) to neuroscience (Marazziti, Baroni, Landi, Ceresoli, & Dell’Osso, 2013).
In this latter view, morality or ethics, like decep- tion, is also natural and normal—a product of evolution, occurring naturally. As Darwin (1871) theorized in The Descent of Man, “Any animal whatever, endowed with well-marked social in- stincts…would inevitably acquire a moral sense or conscious. …” (p. 71). The idea of an innate moral sense predates Darwin (e.g., Hume, 1751/1777) and has been subject of numerous popular science 

11 Change • July/August 2019
Figure1.  A Multilevel While we will never completely Model of Intervention eradicate academic dishonesty, the for Creating Cultures problem need not be epidemic as of Integrity it is now and has been for decades. 
There will always be individuals Source: Stephens (2015) who will be tempted and attempt 
to cheat in some form or another. 
However, it does not follow that 
the majority will inevitably do 
so—no more so, anyway, than a 
few people getting the flu at your 
school has to turn into a campus-
wide epidemic.
This cheating-as-disease anal-
ogy may be instructive. We have 
learned a lot at great cost over the 
past millennium about treating 
infectious diseases and control-
books in the past decade (e.g., Ariely, 2012; de Waal, 2013;  ling their spread (e.g., campaigns to educate, vaccines to Greene, 2014; Haidt, 2012; Sapolsky, 2017; Trivers, 2011;  inoculate). All of these strategies require professionals and Wilson, 2014). For example, in The Righteous Mind Jona- organizations to provide them, guided by sound policies. than Haidt describes a set of “intuitive ethics” that provide  Preventing epidemics requires a comprehensive, multilevel, the “foundations” of morality, including notions of fairness  systems-based approach; it’s not the result of few good doc- involving ideas of reciprocity, justice, and rights, as opposed  tors and scientists working in isolation.
to cheating; care, concern for others and their well-being  In the same vein, ending the epidemic of academic 
versus harm; and loyalty, standing with your tribe as op- dishonesty necessitates a holistic effort. To create “cultures posed to betrayal. of integrity” (Stephens, 2015), I describe a three-level, 
These intuitive ethics are adaptations that proved useful in  systems-based framework for promoting academic honesty solving the challenges faced by our hominid ancestors over  (Figure 1).
millennia of living together in relatively small groups. They  Two features of this model are especially worth noting. help make trust possible and reciprocity obligatory, allow- First, it advocates a positive developmental approach, creat- ing us to build strong social bonds with others (beyond our  ing a culture of academic integrity and providing students kin) and cooperate closely with them to maximize mutual  with the knowledge, values, and skills needed to achieve advantage. They serve as a check against self-centred, short- with integrity. Second, its central premise is, if we want to sighted impulses and enable us to play non-zero or positive  change individual behavior, we need to change environ-
sum games over the long term. ments. By environments, I mean both culture and context, 
They are, however, no guarantee of behavior; but rather  real and perceived; this includes both the prevailing cus- “little more than flashes of affect … judgments, solutions,  toms, traditions, and practices of people and the more imme- and ideas that pop into consciousness without our being  diate constraints and affordances of the situations in which aware of the mental processes that led to them” (Haidt &  they find themselves.
Joseph, 2004, p. 56). Moreover, these “flashes” do not arise  The notion that the environment is critical to understand- in a vacuum. They are activated in contexts where compet- ing (and changing) behavior has its roots in social psychol- ing goals, opportunities, and/or demands are at play—where,  ogy (Lewin, 1936), which has surged in popularity over 
that is, the temptation to be unethical has arisen. the past decade in the intersection of several fields, includ-
In the case of academic dishonesty, the feeling of fair- ing social and cognitive psychology as well as behavioral ness—and judgment that it would be wrong to cheat—is  economics. For example, in the book Nudge, Thaler and pitted against the goal of getting ahead, maximizing personal  Sunstein (2008) advocated designing environments (“choice advantage, saving time, conserving energy, reducing uncer- architecture”) that “nudge” people to make better (i.e., safer, tainty, and so on. The result is that students (rightly) believe  healthier, more ethical, etc.) choices. Thaler has since won a that cheating is wrong but report doing it anyway (e.g., An- Nobel Prize for his work, and practically anyone carrying a derman, Griesinger, & Westerfield, 1998; Stephens, 2018).  smartphone, wearing an Apple watch, or surfing online often They do so not because they are inherently “bad” people, but  is “nudged” to do something (e.g., stand, breathe, move, because cheating is expedient even if unethical. click, buy).
What is the environment and “choice architecture” in 
which many/most students find themselves as they make 
Ev-i-ta-ble . . . capable of being avoided. decisions about cheating? They are typically on a campus where:

13
Change • July/August 2019
1. academic integrity as a value is largely invisible, and “rational ignorance” of its meaning and importance is the status quo;
2. personal commitment to academic integrity is mostly left latent, and responsibility for academic dishonesty easily and typically externalized;
3. most students cheat, and peer disapproval for doing so is low;
4. teachers fail to adequately monitor for misconduct, and they often respond with “benign neglect” in the face of it;
5. and thus, relatively few students who cheat (less than 1 in a 100, conservatively estimated) are caught and held to account for their academic dishonesty.
The foregoing involves several generalizations, but the picture they provide is not an exaggeration. With few nota- ble exceptions, this is the de facto environment on secondary and tertiary campuses across America and around the world.
More to the point, it’s an environment with a “choice architecture” that makes the decision to cheat natural and normal. This results, as it has for decades, in a “culture 
of cheating” where academic dishonesty is epidemic and continues unabated. The situation itself, not just students’ behavior in it, is both unethical and evitable, and we, the “choice architects” of the educational environments in which our students find themselves, are obliged to change it.
Change: Creating a Choice Architecture for Achieving With Integrity
Apropos the title of this magazine, I want to provide de- scriptions of what needs to change if we are to transform the current culture of cheating into one of integrity (see Table 1).
The changes focus on the “choice architecture” of our educational institutions and the “nudges” that might be 
used to promote academic integrity. The following does not exhaust the potential changes suggested by nudge theory but focuses on a few of the more prominent types of nudges that research indicates may be most productive in creating a choice architecture for achieving with integrity.
Make it Salient: Toward a Visible Valuing of Academic Integrity
Relatively few institutions are known for their honor code or concern for academic integrity. Most students will attend a school or university where there is no code, and academic integrity is largely invisible, relegated to a rarely visited page or two on the Web or in the student handbook.
This needs to change, and an institution does not need to have an honor code to change it. Imagine the following se- quence of “nudges” aimed at increasing the salience, promi- nence, and importance of academic integrity for prospective students:
1. While doing some research to learn about your cam- pus, they notice that academic integrity is highlighted on the homepage. They may not click on the link to 
Table1. Contrasting Cultures of Cheating and Integrity
 
   Contrasting cultures of cheating and integrity:        Discrepant descriptors
    across different
    dimensions
   Dimension              Culture of Cheating         Culture of Integriy
   Valuing                Invisible                   Salient
   of AI
   Understanding    of AI Rational Ignorance          Learning by Default
   Commitment             Latent                      Activated 
   to AI
   Responsibility         Externalized                Internalized
   for AD
   Social Norms related   Low Disapproval, High       High Disapproval, Low
    to                     Engagement                  Engagemnet
    AD
   "Errors"        (i.e., Neglected                   Expected
    AD)
   Sanctions              Behavioral                  Developmental 
   for AD
   Note. AI = Academic Integrity; AD = Academic Dishonesty
investigate further, but they see it, and it’s always there, ready to be clicked. It provides a link to all they need know about academic integrity, what it means, why it’s important, how it’s governed, and with re- sources related to it.
2. Then, when they click on the link for prospective students, a message about academic integrity pops up—a short video message, for example, with clips 
of students and teachers from the school talking about why integrity is important to them. Again, not ev-
ery watches the video that moment, but some return when...
3. Next, while completing their application, writing about integrity (e.g., its meaning and importance in their lives) is one of the essay choices. Once again, not ev- eryone exercises the option, but everyone sees it.
4. Finally, when the highly anticipated acceptance letter arrives, they notice that academic integrity is men- tioned again, along with a link for more information about the course in which they will be enrolled during their first semester.
Learning by Default: Opting-In an Understanding of Academic Integrity
When our hypothetical students arrive on campus to begin their first semester, they are automatically enrolled in an ori- entation, course, or seminar on academic integrity. In other words, learning about academic integrity (what it means, why it’s important, etc.) is the default option—the pre-set course of action that takes effect automatically (Thaler & Sunstein, 2008). A parallel “default” has been shown to be capable of saving lives in the case of organ donor registra- tion (Johnson & Goldstein, 2003).
At present, the default option for learning about and understanding academic integrity at most schools and 

15
Change • July/August 2019
universities is self-selected, independent instruction (i.e., consulting the relevant code of conduct on your own time and in your own way). In short, one has to “opt-in,” and relatively few choose to do so, choosing instead to remain in a state of “rational ignorance” where they are more likely to be dishonest (Dee & Jacob, 2010). 
This idea is not new—it’s been commonplace among honor code institutions for decades (e.g., Davidson, Vander- bilt, and Stanford)—but one that has been increasingly adopted by universities in the United States and elsewhere. Students at the University of Auckland, for example, are automatically opted-in to the online “Academic Integrity Course” during their first semester.
As illustrated in Figure 2, the course consists of five modules that introduce students to the meaning of academic integrity at the university, providing the knowledge, skills, and resources needed to avoid some of the more prevalent types of academic dishonesty.
Most universities do not offer such a course, but they could and should. Doing so is relatively easy, from creating an in-house course to adopting the use of an external one. The latter include Massive Open Online Courses, such as the one I helped to develop with colleagues at the University of Auckland in collaboration with FutureLearn: Academic Integrity: Values, Skills, Action (see https://www.futurelearn. com/courses/academic-integrity).
Prompt Commitment and Personal Responsibility
Contrary to Socratic wisdom, knowledge of the good of- fers no guarantee of doing the good. As noted above, many students cheat despite believing it is wrong. Such judgment— action gaps are not unique to students. Many or most of us often fail to do something we feel we can and ought to do.
The social, psychological, and situational factors that 
can give rise to such sins of commission and omission are many. Among the most powerful is our capacity to neu- tralize or disengage our sense of personal responsibility. These “neutralization techniques” (Sykes & Matza, 1957) 
or “mechanisms of moral disengagement” (Bandura, 1986) include displacement, diffusion, denial of responsibility, and many more. They all serve the same purpose: to mitigate self-recriminations and protect our sense of self as a good, morally decent person. In short, we can be guilty but not feel responsible (e.g., Stephens, 2017, 2018).
In a choice architecture for achieving with integrity, students’ commitment to academic integrity and personal responsibility for academic dishonesty would be unambigu- ous. At present, the former is often left latent and the latter easily externalized with one or more of the aforementioned mechanisms.
The nudges needed to overcome these problems include the use of pre-commitment strategies and follow-up remind- ers. For example, upon completion of the course or seminar 


Change • July/August 2019
Figure2.  University of Auckland’s Academic Integrity Course



Change • July/August 2019
on academic integrity in which they were automatically enrolled, students should be prompted to make a personal commitment to uphold the values they just learned about. Alternatively, or better yet additionally, such pledges could happen at the program and/or course level. These pledges 
or signings may even happen publicly, in full view of (and along with) one’s teachers and peers, as is done at Vanderbilt University and several other institutions.
While such ceremonies might easily be dismissed as symbolic gestures, experimental research has shown that students were significantly less likely to cheat and attempt to justify dishonesty through moral disengagement after sign- ing or even just reading an honor code statement (Shu, Gino, 
& Bazerman, 2011). This experiment highlights not only the importance statements themselves have as touchstones but also the importance of making them salient in the context in which the opportunity to cheat may arise.
In short, pre-commitments are most powerful when they are followed up by reminders that make clear students’ responsibility not to cheat. These reminders may be accom- panied by warnings that have also proven effective in reduc- ing academic dishonesty (Bilic-Zulle, Azman, Frkovic, & Petrovecki, 2008). As a nudge, warnings do not change the incentives or penalties involved, but rather “put them at eye level” so they are clearly seen and understood. For example, 
In short, pre-commitments 
are most powerful when they 
are followed up by reminders that make clear students’ responsibility not to cheat. These reminders may be accompanied by warnings that have also proven effective in reducing academic dishonesty . . . As a nudge, warnings do not change the incentives or penalties involved, but rather ‘put them at eye level’ so they are clearly seen and understood. 
informing students that pattern-matching software (such 
as Turnitin) will be used to screen for potential plagiarism serves as a kind of warning. In my classes, this warning is accompanied by an incentive, yet another type of nudge— points for submitting a draft of their paper into the system a week or two before the due date.
In this digital age, where every institution has adopted a robust learning management system (e.g., Canvas, Moodle, Blackboard), it has never been easier to embed all of the foregoing nudges into the choice architecture of our learn- ing environments. The question is not one of capacity but merely will.
Transform the Norm
Social norms—the informal (often implicit) rules that govern behavior—are a defining feature of culture and a powerful source of motivation for individual behavior. As noted above, many students believe that most of their peers cheat (a descriptive norm) and would not disapprove if they did so (an injunctive norm). The former describe what is and the latter what ought to be or ought not to be (e.g., Cialdini 
& Trost, 1998).
Despite these norms, the majority privately think cheat- ing is wrong but erroneously believe that the majority of others think it’s acceptable. This “pluralistic ignorance” (Prentice & Miller, 1993) offers a potential starting point for transforming the social norms now governing students’ academic behavior. Previous research (e.g., M. P. Haines, 1996) suggests social influence campaigns might offer the best “nudge” in changing norms.
In brief, social influence campaigns involve the use of models—typically those deemed credible, popular, or like us—to demonstrate desired attitudes and actions. Regard- less of the specific means employed—brochures, posters, contests, speeches, videos, public service announcements, articles in the campus newspaper, social media messaging, and so on—research from successful interventions suggests four rules for message development: Keep it simple, tell 
the truth, be consistent, and highlight the (desired) norm (M. P. Haines, 1996). Figure 3 offers an example of a poster from a student-designed campaign to promote “achieving with integrity” (Stephens & Wangaard, 2013; Wangaard & Stephens, 2011).
Finally, the most robust campaigns involve several steps—from collecting baseline data to inform message creation to assessing the effectiveness of the message (see http://socialnorms.org).
Expect Errors and Respond With Developmental Sanctions
Even with all foregoing nudges in place we need to expect errors and respond appropriately. No teacher or professor wants to imagine their students cheating (at least not in their classes!), and far too many fail to properly monitor their as- sessments for breaches of academic integrity. More troubling still are those among us who countenance misconduct, turn- ing a blind eye under the guise of benign neglect.

17
Change • July/August 2019
Figure3. One of the Winning Posters From a Social Influence Campaign Created by High School Students to “Nudge” Others Toward 
“Achieving With Integrity.”


www.changemag.org

Ignoring the problem is not in the best interest of anyone in the long run. Any pain and inconvenience that might 
be spared student and teacher in the short term is offset 
by many pernicious effects. Not least among the latter is the injustice done to honest students and the cynicism that witnessing bad deeds going unpunished can breed. These are the seeds that spawn a culture of cheating, where one is faced with a morally repugnant choice: cheat or be cheated.
Moreover, neglecting the misconduct of someone who cheated is to miss a teachable moment. What could have been an opportunity to learn from a mistake becomes re- inforcement for further dishonesty. In such a case we have not only done a disservice to this student’s future self but also to those with whom they will work and live as an adult (Josephson Institute of Ethics, 2009). However difficult or inconvenient, we are obliged to respond.
The response should not only involve behavioral sanc- tions (e.g., grade reductions and suspensions) but also developmental sanctions. For example, upon returning from their suspension, students at University of California at San Diego are enrolled in a seminar that helps them “learn about and develop skills in professional integrity and ethical deci- sion making” (Bertram Gallant & McCreary, 2013, p. 2). The program also includes individual meetings with peer 
mentors and professional staff as well as writing exercises that provide an opportunity for reflection and prospective thinking. In short, the program provides a range of devel- opmentally appropriate responses consistent the aims of an educational institution.
In conclusion, even as the use of deception is natural and normal, academic dishonesty is neither ethical nor inevi- table. It is not only morally wrong for students to cheat, it 
is also wrong for teachers and administrators to ignore the problem. But, with far too few exceptions, that is what we have done, and an epidemic of academic dishonesty has flourished.
The problem is not merely that cheating is common and contagious, but that it is corrosive. It undermines students’ learning (and the validity of its assessment) as well as their social and moral development—the core concerns of our profession, which we ought to care most about.
This needs to change, and we—the “choice architects”— must take responsibility for creating cultures of integrity where fundamental values (fairness, truth, honesty, fairness, respect, and responsibility) are not only highly salient and widely understood, but also deeply valued and broadly re- spected. I hope the suggestions offered here provide a nudge toward that end and an end to the epidemic.  C

www.changemag.org

ORCIDJason M. Stephens  https://orcid.org/ 0000-0003-2404-6321References
■ Anderman, E. M., Griesinger, T., & Westerfield, G. (1998). Motivation and cheating during early adolescence. Journal of Educational Psychology, 90(1), 84–93.
■ Ariely, D. (2012). The (honest) truth about dishonesty: How we lie to everyone—Especially ourselves. New York, NY: HarperCollins.
■ Atkins, B. E., & Atkins, R. E. (1936). A study of the honesty of prospective teachers. Elementary School Journal, 36, 595–603.
■ Bandura, A. (1986). Social foundations of thought and action: A social cognitive theory. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.
■ Bertram Gallant, T., & McCreary, B. (2013). Academic integrity seminar assessment. San Diego, CA: Academic Integrity Office, University of California, San Diego.Retrieved from https://students.ucsd.edu/_files/Academic- Integrity/AI%20Seminar%20Assessment%20Report.pdf
■ Bilic-Zulle, L., Azman, J., Frkovic, V., & Petrovecki, M. (2008). Is there an effective approach to deterring students from plagiarizing? Science and Engineering Ethics, 14(1), 139–147. doi:10.1007/s11948-007-9037-2
■ Bowers, W. J. (1964). Student dishonesty and its control in college. New York, NY: Columbia University Bureau of Applied Social Research.
■ Bowlby, J. (1969). Attachment and loss: Attachment (Vol. 1). New York, NY: Basic Books.
■ Brosnan, S. F., & de Waal, F. B. M. (2014). Evolution of responses to (un)fairness. Science, 346(6207). doi:10.1126/ science.1251776
■ Callahan, D. (2004). The cheating culture: Why More Americans are doing wrong to get ahead. New York, NY: Harcourt.
■ Cialdini, R. B., & Trost, M. R. (1998). Social influence: Social norms, conformity and compliance. In D. T. Gilbert, 
S. T. Fiske, & G. Lindzey (Eds.), The handbook of social psychology (4th ed., Vol. 2, pp. 151–192). Boston, MA: McGraw-Hill.
■ Darwin, C. (1859). On the origin of species. London, England: John Murray.
■ Darwin, C. (1871). The descent of man. London, England: Murray.
■ de Waal, F. (2009). Primates and philosophers: How morality evolved. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
■ de Waal, F. (2013). The bonobo and the atheist: In search of humanism among the primates. New York, NY: Nor- ton & Co.
■ Dee, T. S., & Jacob, B. A. (2010). Rational ignorance in education: A field experiment in student plagiarism (Work- ing Paper 15672). National Bureau of Economic Research. Retrieved from www.nber.org/papers/w15672
■ Gabor, T. (1994). Everybody does it! Crime by the public. Toronto, Canada: University of Toronto Press.
■ Gino, F., Ayal, S., & Ariely, D. (2009). Contagion and differentiation in unethical behavior: The effect of one bad apple on the barrel. Psychological Science, 20(3), 393-398. doi:10.1111/j.1467-9280.2009.02306.x
■ Greene, J. D. (2014). Moral tribes: Emotion, reason, and the gap between us and them. New York, NY: Penguin.
■ Haidt, J. (2012). The righteous mind: Why good people are divided by politics and religion. New York, NY: Pan- theon Books.
■ Haidt, J., & Joseph, C. (2004). Intuitive ethics: How innately prepared intuitions generate culturally variable vir- tues. Daedalus, 133(4), 55–66. doi:10.1162/0011526042365555
■ Haines, M. P. (1996). A social norms approach to preventing binge drinking at colleges and universities. Washing- ton, DC: US Department of Education. Retrieved from https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED421930.pdf
■ Hartshorne, H., & May, M. A. (1928). Studies in the nature of character: Studies in deceit (Vol. 1). New York, NY: Macmillan.
(continued)
16 Change • July/August 2019
References (cont d)
■ Hume, D. (1777). An enquiry concerning the principles of morals. Retrieved from https://www.gutenberg.org/ files/4320/4320-h/4320-h.htm (Original work published 1751)
■ Johnson, E. J., & Goldstein, D. (2003). Do defaults save lives? Science, 302(5649), 1338–1339. doi:10.1126/ science.1091721
■ Josephson Institute of Ethics. (2009). A study of values and behavior concerning integrity: The impact of age, cyni- cism and high school character. Retrieved from http://josephsoninstitute.org/surveys/
■ Lee, K. (2013). Little liars: Development of verbal deception in children. Child Development Perspectives, 7(2), 91–96.
■ Lewin, K. (1936). Principles of a topographical psychology. New York, NY: McGraw-Hill.
■ Marazziti, D., Baroni, S., Landi, P., Ceresoli, D., & Dell’Osso, L. (2013). The neurobiology of moral sense: Facts or hypotheses? Annals of General Psychiatry, 12, 6–6. doi:10.1186/1744-859X-12-6
■ Murdock, T. B., Stephens, J. M., & Grotewiel, M. M. (2016). Student dishonesty in the face of assessment: Who, why, and what we can do about it. In G. T. L. Brown & L. R. Harris (Eds.), Handbook of human and social conditions in assessment (pp. 186–203). New York, NY: Routledge.
■ Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. (2017). Education at a glance: Earnings by educa- tional attainment. Author. doi:https://doi.org/10.1787/1d8fd23c-en
■ Prentice, D. A., & Miller, D. T. (1993). Pluralistic ignorance and alcohol use on campus: Some consequences of misperceiving the social norm. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 64(2), 243–256.
■ Sapolsky, R. M. (2017). Behave: The biology of humans at our best and worst. New York, NY: Penguin.
■ Shu, L. L., Gino, F., & Bazerman, M. H. (2011). Dishonest deed, clear conscience: When cheating leads to moral disengagement and motivated forgetting. Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, 73(3), 330–349.
■ Stephens, J. M. (2015). Creating cultures of integrity: A multi-level intervention model for promoting academic honesty. In T. A. Bretag (Ed.), Handbook of academic integrity (pp. 995–1007). Singapore: Springer.
■ Stephens, J. M. (2017). How to cheat and not feel guilty: Cognitive dissonance and its amelioration in the domain of academic dishonesty. Theory Into Practice, 56(2), 111–120. doi:10.1080/00405841.2017.1283571
■ Stephens, J. M. (2018). Bridging the divide: The role of motivation and self-regulation in explaining the judgment- action gap related to academic dishonesty. Frontiers in Psychology, 9(246), 1–15. doi:10.3389/fpsyg.2018.00246
■ Stephens, J. M., & Wangaard, D. B. (2013). Using the epidemic of academic dishonesty as an opportunity for character education: A three-year mixed methods study (with mixed results). Peabody Journal of Education, 88(2), 159–179. doi:10.1080/0161956X.2013.775868
■ Sykes, G. M., & Matza, D. (1957). Techniques of neutralization: A theory of delinquency. American Sociological Review, 22, 664–670.
■ Talwar, V., Gordon, H. M., & Lee, K. (2007). Lying in the elementary school years: verbal deception and its rela- tion to second-order belief understanding. Developmental Psychology, 43(3), 804–810.
■ Talwar, V., & Lee, K. (2008). Social and cognitive correlates of children’s lying behavior. Child Development, 79(4), 866–881.
■ Thaler, R. H., & Sunstein, C. R. (2008). Nudge: Improving decisions about health, wealth, and happiness. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.
■ Trivers, R. (2011). The folly of fools: The logic of deceit and self-deception in human life. New York, NY: Basic Books.
■ Wangaard, D. B., & Stephens, J. M. (2011). Creating a culture of academic integrity: A tool kit for secondary schools. Minneapolis, MN: Search Institute.
■ Wilson, E. O. (2014). The meaning of human existence. New York, NY: Liveright Publishing.
www.changemag.org 17

