Asian Journal of the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning  
2025, Vol. 15, No. 1, 17-32 
Article  
The Role of Student Conceptions of Feedback and Marker Comments on Student Performance 
Caroline ASPDEN1, Amanda HARPER1, Gavin BROWN2 
1 School of Biological Sciences, University of Auckland 
2 Faculty of Arts and Education, University of Auckland 
ABSTRACT 
Exploring the efficacy of feedback is a constant challenge for practitioners, who frequently observe that students do not use feedback. Early areas of feedback research focussed on feedback information and contexts, while more recent theory places a strong emphasis on what students bring to the interaction. How students conceive of the purpose and sources of feedback moderates how they interpret and use feedback. Student conceptions of feedback seem to impact achievement, but mechanisms are not well understood. This study investigated student conceptions of feedback in parallel with specific feedback and assessment events to determine if different conceptions are linked to different academic outcomes. Using self-reported survey responses within an introductory science course, student conceptions of feedback (SCoF) were mapped to observed uses of feedback, and subsequent performance, constrained by marker comments and prior academic performance. Within a well-fitting structural equation model, the conception Feedback tells me if I am meeting expectations loaded on improved performance (β = .21) but did not relate to self-reported use of feedback, which was somewhat explained by the conception I enjoy getting feedback (β = .17). Greater academic performance prior to the course reduced enjoyment of feedback (β = -.14) and created fewer marker comments on work (β = - .49). Overall course performance was weakly explained by three conceptions of feedback (i.e., Feedback tells me if I am meeting expectations, β = .15; Feedback is tutor comments, β = .11; Peer feedback helps, β = -.13) and strongly by prior educational performance (β = .29). These results show that conceptions of feedback weakly contribute to feedback usage and better performance, but clearly show the challenge of providing usable feedback to academically able students.  This  study  provides  insights  into  previously  undocumented  interactions  between moderators of feedback processes. 
Keywords: feedback; conceptions (SCoF) 
Correspondence: Ms Caroline Aspden (c.aspden@auckland.ac.nz) Recommended Citation: 
Aspden, C., Harper, A., & Brown, G. (2025).  The Role of Student Conceptions of Feedback and Marker Comments on Student Performance, School of Biological Sciences. Asian Journal of the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning, 15(1). 17-32. 
https://doi.org/10.24112/ajsotl.153220

The Role of Student Conceptions of Feedback and Marker Comments on Student Performance | 31 
INTRODUCTION 
Feedback is how students gain information as to how their work or understanding measures up against required standards and potentially how to meet those standards. However, the availability of feedback does not automatically translate into learning progression (Hattie & Timperley, 2007; Kluger & Di Nisi, 1996). Not only do students need the right information at the right time, but they also need to have appropriate dispositions and approaches to feedback (Carless & Boud, 2018; Panadero & Lipnevich, 2022). Student conceptions of feedback (Brown et al., 2016) have been shown to meaningfully relate to academic self-efficacy, self- regulation  of  learning,  and  academic  performance.  However,  it  is  unclear  how  specific feedback  conceptions  mediate  the  learner’s  approach  to  using  feedback,  or  what  the consequent impact of those behaviours is on academic performance. This study contributes to the field by examining how student conceptions of feedback influence their use of the feedback they received within a first-year university science course. 
Feedback Context and Content 
Feedback must help a student recognise gaps in their knowledge, areas to improve, and how to proceed if it is to contribute to learning. Importantly, upon receipt of feedback, there must be an opportunity to act on it and show evidence of its impact; this means feedback has to come before a final, summative evaluation. Feedback (e.g., grade, marks, or comments) typically comes after an external evaluation by a third party (e.g., the teacher or peer) (Hattie & Timperley, 2007). For novice students, the expert perspective of the teacher is integral to developing competence in a domain. In an ideal world, each student would have access to regular individual dialogue with teachers while working on a learning task so that they can adjust and improve prior to the final summative evaluation. However, in many higher education contexts,  most  feedback  arrives  too  late,  leaving  no  chance  for  students  to  make improvements (Jessop & Tomas, 2017; Lipnevich et al., 2020). Since providing evaluative comments on student work is both restricted in frequency and is labour-intensive for teachers, it is essential that feedback is designed in such a way as to optimise the likelihood of it being acted on. Designing courses that make explicit the feed-forward function of teacher evaluation of summative student work can enable students’ transfer and application of the feedback given. However, there is still variability in the efficacy of marker feedback even when the aforementioned conditions are met.  
Student Conceptions of Feedback 
The learner’s approach to the feedback process shapes how they go about using feedback to progress their learning. Student conceptions of feedback seem to have an impact on their achievement (Brown, 2011; Brown et al., 2016; Gao & Brown, 2023). Consistent with the idea that beliefs and attitudes predict intentions and behaviours (Ajzen, 2005), this implies that student engagement with and use of feedback are influenced by their conceptions of its purpose and their attitudes toward it. Therefore, a better understanding of the adaptive and maladaptive responses and attitudes of students towards external feedback has the potential to enhance feedback practices. Moreover, knowledge of the conceptions held by a particular cohort of students can inform responsive teaching decisions relating to feedback.  
To explore student conceptions of feedback as a self-regulatory mechanism, Irving & Peterson (2007) developed a student self-report survey (i.e., student conceptions of feedback; SCoF). This inventory has been used successfully across a range of contexts to identify adaptive and maladaptive conceptions of feedback (Brown et al., 2016; Brown & Zhao, 2023; Gao & Brown, 2023; Harris et al., 2014). Among first-year university students, the belief that “I actively use feedback” positively predicted self-regulated learning, academic self-efficacy, and academic achievement  (Brown  et  al.,  2016).  In  general,  when  feedback  was  used  and  students perceived feedback as useful, feedback contributed to better achievement and performance (Brown  &  Zhao,  2023).  However,  the  same  study  reported  that  relying  on  peers  or teachers/tutors for feedback correlated with worse performance. A systematic review found that when students perceived feedback as useful, feedback contributed to better achievement and performance (Brown & Zhao, 2023). Thus, it is plausible that student conceptions of feedback, particularly those about its purpose and utility, map to student behaviour and actions in response to feedback. We therefore hypothesise that a student’s individual conceptions influence their feedback use, which may result in improved performance in subsequent tasks. To date, student’s use of specific feedback information has not been investigated alongside student conceptions of feedback. 
Research Aims 
This study uses data from a first-year and first-semester biological science course designed to make explicit to students the feed-forward function of teacher comments on graded work. The aim is to investigate the influence of student conceptions of feedback on their use of the marker’s feedback. The questions addressed in this study are: 
a) What conceptions of feedback were held by first-year Biological Science students? 
b) How  did  those  conceptions  relate to  student  self-reported  uses  of  feedback  and academic performance? 
METHODS 
Context  
This study took place in a first-year core course focussed on ecology and evolution for the Biological Science major at the university (90 out of 478 students gave permission for data use). Written communication and critical thinking skills were explicitly taught in this course, and transition into university was supported by activities that assisted students to become self- regulated learners who could actively engage with feedback. For most students, this is one of their first courses of study at university.  
The course was designed to include multiple feedback opportunities and to facilitate students’ interaction  with,  and  use  of,  feedback  to  enhance  the  quality  of  their  work  or  learning strategies. The curriculum was designed to emphasise coherence and continuation of skill development from one assessment to the next, using the feedback strategies discussed in the literature review. Assessments had both a formative and summative function, as skills and concepts from earlier graded assessments were revisited and extended in later assessments. In each summative submission, the markers provided individualised feed-back and feed- forward comments that would be relevant to the subsequent assessment. Some rubric criteria used for evaluating assignment 1 were used again for assignment 2, and students were required to apply what was suggested in the feedback to a different context. Assignment 1 was a 500-word synopsis, whereas assignment 2 was a 1500-word scientific report. The assessment areas covered in both rubrics for assignment 1 and assignment 2 included scientific academic writing style, critical thinking, use of scholarly sources, citations, and referencing. Markers were trained to provide future-focussed comments that suggest ways to improve against these criteria. 
Study Design 
This was a non-experimental observational study based on natural outcomes generated by the teaching process. The study focussed on a single feedback cycle between assignment 1 and assignment 2. Multiple data sources were used to triangulate how student conceptions were related to their behaviours and outcomes. The four data sources for each participant were:  
a) A baseline survey capturing beliefs and attitudes toward feedback (SCoF).  
b) The markers’ feedback given at the end of assignment 1.  
c) Individual written reflections about how they used feedback for assignment 2. 
d) Performance on the assignments and on the overall course. 
Collecting matched data over time allowed structural modelling by regressing the SCoF data onto  the  self-reported  feedback  uses  and  evaluation,  and  onto  marker  comments  and performance in course assessments and overall grade.  
Participants 
Ninety students in total participated in the study. Most participants were female (72.2%), with a mean age of 20 (SD = 2.82). Sixty per cent of all participants were Pakeha/European, a quarter Asian (27.8%), six were Māori (6.7%), three (3.3%) Pasifika, and two (2.2%) another ethnic minority. All participants were in their first semester of their first year of study. These students had achieved well in their secondary schooling, with a mean incoming grade point equivalent (GPE) of 5.2/9.0 (SD = 2.0), with nearly three-quarters of participants (73.3%) having achieved a B grade equivalent or higher. All but one student was enrolled in a Bachelor of Science degree. The course in which the current study was conducted was compulsory for students majoring in Biological Sciences and an elective otherwise. 
Instruments 
Student Conceptions of Feedback Student perceptions of feedback were captured using the SCoF inventory (Irving & Peterson, 2007). The instrument captures five latent factors: 1. I actively use feedback with a subfactor, I enjoy feedback; 2. Peer feedback helps; 3. I ignore feedback; 4. Feedback tells me if I am meeting or exceeding expectations; and 5. Tutor/marker comments are helpful and clear. Theoretically, four of these factors are adaptive, while “I ignore feedback” is maladaptive. Once a well-fitting model was established, factor scores were calculated for each student using the average of raw responses for each factor to represent each student’s position on the factor. This produced scores that follow the same scale as the response scale. These factor scores were used in subsequent structural equation modelling. 
Marker Feedback  
Categorical content analysis (Smith, 2000) was used to identify the nature of the markers’ feedback. A simple three-point ordinal scale was used to classify feedback. Identification of a fault was considered the simplest feedback, whereas description of how to correct a fault was given a higher standing. Finally, feedback that directed students’ attention to addressing the issue in the future was given the highest weight. The scale and the descriptor are summarised as follows: 
a) Evaluative: identification of errors with no suggestions for improvement.  
b) Corrective:  commentary  on  issues  or  corrections  with  a  recommended  path  for improvement. 
c) Facilitative:  specific  feedforward  comments  or  reflective  questions  oriented  to development and creating awareness for application in future contexts.  
Each comment was assigned a score, and the weighted sum of all scores generated a quality score for each instance of the markers’ comments. These comment scores were then used in a structural equation model.  
Students’ Use of Feedback  
Students’ use of feedback was evaluated through their reflections using categorical content analysis (Smith, 2000). A simple four-point ordinal scale of feedback use was created, in which greater weight was given to uses that involved deeper processing of the feedback. The weightings were as follows:  
a) No reference to the feedback was mentioned.  
b) Error Fixing: the student reported correcting surface feature errors (e.g., formatting, punctuation).  
c) Corrections: the student mentioned the application of corrective feedback comments from assignment 1.  
d) Facilitative:  the  student  reported  using  the  feedback  to  seek  new  information, knowledge, or alternative feedback to improve their work.  
Each reflection element was assigned a score, and the weighted sum of all scores generated a quality score for each instance of student reflections. These comment scores were then used in a structural equation model.  
Academic Performance  
Three measures of academic performance were captured. These were the incoming grade point equivalent (GPE), the overall final grade in the course, and the score difference between assignment 1 and assignment 2. Since the two assignments were scored using the same rubric, the score difference was adjusted to account for the amount of possible increase (i.e., the difference between assignment 1 and 2 divided by the possible gain from assignment 1 to the maximum score). This prevented a penalty against students who had performed very well initially since their score change was evaluated against the possible gain to reach the ceiling score (Hovland et al., 1955).  
Modelling Relationships Between Variables  
The SCoF responses were analysed using confirmatory factor analysis, while the relations among constructs were evaluated with structural equation modelling (SEM). Both procedures were carried out using AMOS (Arbuckle, 2021). The fit of models to the data was determined by examining multiple fit indices. A well-fitting model would have a normed chi-square ratio <3.00, Comparative Fit Index (CFI) and gamma hat values >.95, and root mean square error of approximation (RMSEA) and standardised root mean squared residual (SRMR) values <.05. Acceptable fit is attributed if the normed chi-square ratio is not statistically significant, the CFI and gamma hat values >.90, and root mean square error of approximation (RMSEA) and standardised root mean squared residual (SRMR) values <.08.  
The hypothesised SEM model specified that student conceptions of feedback and markers’ comments would both influence how students used feedback. Student use of feedback was assumed to mediate the influence of conceptions and markers’ comments on the improved marks in the subsequent assessments. Other paths between variables were also explored based on MI and theoretical underpinnings. This included investigating whether incoming GPE could be a determinant of behaviours and performance.  
Given the obtained sample of n = 90, paths would have to be β > .20 to be statistically significant. However, because the sample size was small, an exploratory approach was deployed, and the retained paths β > .10 were reported even though they were not statistically significant. It is acknowledged that, by adopting a lower β threshold, we are exercising some flexibility with conventional standards and could be accused of p-hacking (Kahan, Forbes, & Cro, 2020). Nonetheless, these paths may generate important insights that warrant testing in a larger study. 
RESULTS 
SCoF Measurement Model  
A good-fitting model was achieved for Student Conceptions of Feedback. After removing one item for >10% missing data, confirmatory factor analysis indicated the model reported by Brown et al. (2016) had poor fit (c2 = 624.383, df = 288; c2/df = 2.168, p =. 14; CFI = 0.624, gamma hat = 0.385; RMSEA = 0.110; SRMR = 0.268). The five-factor model was improved by removing items that had weak loadings (<.30; cofq4) or strong cross-loading to other items or factors (cofq5, cofq7). The entire factor I ignore feedback (i.e., cofq2, cofq6, cofq19, cofq25, and cofq31) was deleted because the loadings were not statistically significant. Deletion of this factor seems intuitive given the course emphasis on using and understanding feedback. The resulting trimmed model contained 18 items explained by four factors with good fit (c2  = 148.92,  df = 128,  p = .10;  c2/df = 1.16,  p = .28;  CFI = 0.953,  gamma  hat = 0.976; RMSEA = 0.042; SRMR = 0.074).  
Table 1 shows the five factors, their items, factor loadings, factor means, and factor robustness statistics. While the model had an excellent fit, only two factors had a coefficient H above 0.8, suggesting that these factors may not be replicable. It is likely that the small sample size has contributed to this relatively weak robustness. 
All the retained factors were positively endorsed with scores above “moderately agree”. The students agreed most with I actively use feedback, giving it a score of “mostly agree”. The weakest score was seen for the Peers help factor. All factor intercorrelations were between weak and moderate, ranging from r = .24-.61.  
Table 1. SCoF Factor Information and Items. 
 Code          SCoF factor and item                                                                         Factor loading 
               Active use of feedback (M = 5.04, SD = 0.62; coefficient H = 0.71) 
 cofq32        I actively use feedback to help me improve                                                   .52 
 cofq13        I make active use of feedback from my tutors and/or markers                                  .58 
 cofq9         I use feedback to set goals/targets for the next assessment                                  .55 
 cofq18        Feedback makes me try harder                                                                 .61 
 cofq23        Feedback changes the way I learn and study                                                   .60 
               Enjoyment subfactor (M = 4.83, SD= 1.02; coefficient H = .92) 
 cofq11        I look forward to feedback from the markers                                                  .96 
 cofq3         I enjoy getting feedback                                                                     .56 
               Peers help (M = 4.28, SD = 0.73; coefficient H = 0.87) 
 cofq20        Feedback from my classmates helps my learning                                                .68 
 cofq30        Feedback from my classmates really helps me                                                  .90 
 cofq17        I make active use of the feedback I get from classmates                                      .40 
 cofq12        I can trust feedback from my peers                                                           .68 
 cofq22        I learn better when my friends comment on my works                                           .47 
               Meet expectations (M = 4.68, SD = 0.84; coefficient H = 0.55) 
 cofq27        I know I have done well if the result is better than last time                               .84 
 cofq26        Doing better than my parents expect is doing well                                            .30 
 cofq16        Doing better than the expected or required standard is a good result                         .65 
               Tutor/marker comments (M = 4.90, SD = 0.68; coefficient H = 0.70) 
 cofq21        Feedback from my markers makes it clear how to improve                                       .70 
 cofq29        Tutors and/or markers give me trustworthy and honest feedback                                .66 
 cofq8         Markers of my work give me clear feedback                                                    .61 
Markers’ Comments 
All students received a grade and personalised annotations on their assessment submissions, with an additional general statement providing an overall evaluation of the work and some encouraging words. The mean number of total comments that each student received from their marker was 11.3 (SD = 5.4). Among these comments, evaluative feedback was given the most frequently (M = 8.5 comments per student, SD = 4.8). This was given roughly four times more  than  corrective  feedback  (M = 2.367,  SD = 2.611).  Facilitative  feedback  was  given infrequently (M = 0.433, SD = 0.654). Sixty-four participants (71%) received only feedback highlighting surface errors or corrections. Seven participants (7.8%) were given some feed- forward advice on how to resolve issues beyond surface aspects of their writing. The mean feedback comment score was 1.3 (SD = 0.3). 
Most markers avoided editing student work; instead, they explained rules or processes for students to follow to remedy identified weaknesses in the submitted writing. When feed- forward  comments  were  provided,  they  primarily  directed  students  to  the  sources  of information or suggested strategies that would help the student to build evaluative judgement. 
Reported Use of Feedback 
One third of the participants (n =31) did not report using marker feedback to improve their second assignment. Eight students (9%) used feedback to fix evaluative features in their writing. Nearly a third of the participants (n =27) made corrective efforts to improve their writing, while approximately one quarter of them (n =24) reported seeking feedback from sources to assist with their improvement. The mean feedback use was 1.1 (SD = 0.9). 
Performance Improvement 
The mean score of assignment 1 was 78% (SD =14.2%), and that of assignment 2 was 80% (SD =13.9%). The mean absolute improvement across these criteria was 22% (SD =14.2%). About half of the students (51%) improved from assignment 1 to assignment 2, and 16% demonstrated no change in performance, while a third (33%) performed worse. As a result, the mean improvement as a proportion of the potential gain was negative 9% (SD=113%). 
Incoming and Final Course Grades 
These students had achieved well in their prior schooling and continued to perform well during the study. The mean incoming grade point equivalent (GPE) was 5.2 (SD=2.0), while the mean for the final course grade was 6.7 (SD=1.7) 
Structural Model 
A well-fitting structural equation model indicates multiple potential causal pathways from SCoF to students’ use of feedback and their achievement. To address the small sample size, factor or variable scores were used, giving a total of 10 variables. The structural model positioned entry GPE as a predictor of all SCOF factors, markers’ comments, feedback use, improvement score, and final course grade. Following the chronological flow of data collection, the SCoF factors  were regressed  onto  feedback  use,  improvement score,  and final  course  grade. Markers’ comments regressed onto feedback use, improvement, and final course grade. Feedback  use  regressed  onto  improvement  and  course  grade.  Degree  of  improvement regressed  onto  final  course  grade.  All  statistically  non-significant  paths  were  removed, resulting in a model (Figure 1) with an excellent fit (c2 = 12.346, df = 27, p = .99; CFI = 1.00, gamma hat = 1.00; RMSEA = 0.000; SRMR = 0.0449). All path values > .20 were statistically significant. The amount of variance explained in these relations is shown as the squared multiple correlation or R2 value beside each construct. The amounts explained are small (.06 < R2 < .37; Cohen, 2013).  
Although the sample size impacted the statistical significance of the observed path values, their direction and relationships have generated interesting insights. Two SCoF factors loaded onto enjoyment of feedback (i.e., I Use Feedback and Tutor Comments are helpful and clear). Meet Expectations loaded onto the amount of improvement students exhibited. The I enjoy feedback factor was a weak predictor of reported feedback use. The final course grade had positive loadings from Tutor/marker comments are helpful and clear and Feedback tells me if I am meeting, or exceeding expectations, while Peer feedback helps reduced course grade. Unsurprisingly,  students’  entry GPE  strongly reduced the  quality  of markers’  comments, suggesting that the markers had less to say about the writing of academically better students. The initial GPE had a strong prediction on the final course grade. Similarly, initial GPE loaded somewhat on the degree of improvement in assignment 2, again suggesting that more able students made more progress despite receiving less sophisticated markers’ comments. GPE had an inverse path to the I enjoy feedback factor, indicating that more proficient students did not enjoy getting feedback, probably because these students did not receive high-quality feedback, nor did they enjoy having their faults pointed out.  
In terms of feedback practices, the quality of markers’ comments supported greater or deeper use of feedback, especially among students who were less able academically. Naturally, the level of reflective use depends on the level of comments, such that a student who got only Level 1 feedback could not logically claim to use Level 2 or 3 responses. Hence, corrective and facilitative feedback is likely to help academically weaker students who enjoy receiving tutor comments and who intend to use feedback for improvement.  

Figure 1. Structural equation model of relations among SCoF, Feedback use, Improvement, GPE, score, and Marker Comments.  
Note. All values are standardised weights; statistically significant paths are represented as solid lines; residuals removed for simplicity. 
DISCUSSION 
Influence of SCoF on Student Performance and Behaviour  
This study has extended our understanding of how student conceptions of feedback influence student learning by showing its relationships, not just with academic performance, but also with student feedback use. In contrast to a previous study in the same institution (Brown et al., 2016), this study discovered a number of differences in how SCoF factors influenced academic performance. Unlike the results yielded in the mentioned study, the conception that tutor comments are helpful had a positive effect on performance and on student enjoyment of feedback. On one level, it is intuitive that students value and use tutor comments. Students in previous studies thought their tutors knew what quality looks like in the current context, and since tutors would be grading submitted work, they were in the best position to provide reliable feedback (Brown et al., 2016; Harris & Brown, 2013). Enjoyment of feedback also depended on endorsing the idea that students would use feedback to improve their learning. While the path value was not statistically significant, the path from enjoyment to reported feedback use supports a supposition that it is enjoyment, or at least positive emotions towards feedback, that drives feedback use rather than simply recognising the benefits of feedback. 
Furthermore, conceiving of feedback as a matter of meeting expectations supported both writing and course grades to improve. This adds to the already compelling evidence from meta-analyses  that  knowledge  of  results  answers  the  question  “how  am  I  going?”  and enhances understanding of criteria and goals (Hattie & Timperley, 2007). Knowing how current performance measures up is necessary for self-monitoring and leads to improvements in performance by assisting learners in refining their understanding of the goals. Students who use feedback to work out if they are meeting expectations tend to improve more than those who do not. This construct has obvious connections with self-regulated learning. 
It seems, in the context of the explicit teaching about feedback and the academic weight placed  on  responding  to  feedback,  students  understood  the  importance  of  meeting expectations and the role that markers’ comments had towards helping them achieve those expectations. This suggests that explicit instructions on the purposes and nature of feedback, as  implemented  in  this  course,  might  translate  markers’  comments  into  appropriate behavioural responses.  
The negative effect of peer feedback on overall course grade replicates Brown et al. (2016). Learning activities and assessment structures in this course were designed around embedded formative feedback opportunities. These included peer-dialogue centred on exemplars and rubrics, peer-review of draft work, and written reflection focussed on the use of feedback alongside  in-person  dialogue  while  working  on  assessment.  Students  did  these  things irrespective of whether such behaviours fit with their incoming conceptions. However, students were asked to respond to markers’ comments, not those of their peers. This small negative path to overall course grade could be interpreted as an inappropriate emphasis on depending on tutors rather than engaging with peers, as has been argued elsewhere (Cho & MacArthur, 2010; Nicol, Thomson & Breslin, 2013; Panadero & Lipnevich, 2022). On the other hand, students may be justified in thinking that their peers, as fellow novices, are not reliable informants  for  improved  performance  (Peterson  &  Irving,  2008).  The  negative  path  to achievement may imply that students who only use peer feedback achieve lower grades. 
Most importantly, unlike many other studies (Brown & Zhao, 2023), explicit endorsement of using feedback to improve learning did not load onto any of the feedback behaviours. Instead, that factor influenced student behaviour through enjoying getting feedback. Notably, that conception  diminished  for  students  with  greater  academic  proficiency.  This  creates  an interesting conundrum: how to make feedback enjoyable even though it might be critical or insufficiently sophisticated. In this context, it seems clear that not having a positive emotional reaction to getting feedback leads to less effort to implement it.  
Markers’ Comments  
As predicted, how students reported using feedback aligned with the feedback level in the markers’  comments,  which  indicates  that  students  had  read  and  used  their  feedback. 
However, the lack of a path between comments and improvement indicates that markers’ comments do not necessarily create greater improvement even when students report having made use of the feedback. Thus, we return to the classic instructor problem: I have given them feedback, but they do not use it. The lack of impact of feedback on observable outcomes shows how difficult it is to give the feedback that will actually help students improve (Hattie & Timperley, 2007; Nicol & Macfarlane-Dick, 2006). While markers were encouraged to avoid overly  academic  terminology,  there  was  no  guarantee  that  students  understood  those comments. It has been argued that students with a low level of feedback literacy fail to learn from feedback (Carless & Boud, 2018; Winstone et al, 2017); yet the SCoF factor scores did not suggest that these students lacked understanding or appreciation of what feedback was and what it was for. Just as likely, the time between getting feedback and producing the second assignment might simply have been too short to allow students to internalise and learn how to write  better.  Additionally,  the  difference  between  the  two  assignment  tasks  might  have prevented the feedback on the first assignment from supporting an improved performance on the second assignment. In other words, the feedback might not have been relevant for the subsequent assignment (Winstone et al, 2017). This would be the case if students were not able to transfer and apply the feedback to the new context. Transfer of learning is dependent on how similar two contexts are (Thorndike & Woodworth, 1901). Transfer is easier when the source and target are closely related. In this study, some rubric criteria are closely related across assignments (for example, referencing), while others require more abstraction (for example, critical thinking). Therefore, students might not recognise the relevance of feedback to the second assignment. A further potential explanation lies in the awarding of a summative grade  for  assignment  1.  Other  studies  have  observed  that  feedback  comments  can  be undermined when given with grades and scores (Lipnevich & Smith, 2009). Grades do not work well for formative purposes (Black & Wiliam, 1998; Schute, 2007; Lipnevich & Smith, 2008). This surfaces two conundrums: Firstly, individual teacher feedback is only provided on graded assessments due to limited resourcing; and secondly, how to assign ungraded tasks that students do not strategically choose to avoid (Harris et al., 2018) is still a major challenge in higher education.  
Prior Achievement  
Somewhat counterintuitively, students with a high GPE experienced less enjoyment from feedback than weaker students. This was not a significant path, but it is a plausible one given the  significant  negative  causal  path  from  GPE  to  the  level  of  marker  comments.  More importantly,  the  sophistication  of  markers’  comments  greatly  reduced  as  student  GPE increased. We have to conclude that the initial work of more able students had fewer features that  needed  correcting.  Thus,  the  markers  would  make  more  comments  about  surface features, which are likely to be the last few aspects of an assignment to which a student gives attention. It is conceivable that such feedback on minor details does not result in an enjoyable learning experience, particularly for proficient students (Kluger & DeNisi, 1996). 
The  relationship  between  GPE  and  final  grade  was  positive.  This  is  an  obvious  and understandable autoregressive path in which prior performance predicts later performance (Biesanz, 2012). Those who start better tend to end better. Those students also improved more, even though they received less sophisticated feedback. Knowing learning strategies that consistently work and lead to progress is what sets competent students apart from others (Hartwig & Dunlosky, 2012). Thus, when work is of a high quality, markers have to work much harder  to  provide  feedback  that  actually  helps  those  students  improve  even  further. Alternatively, it may be better for instructors to not comment on the surface and trivial features of a well-constructed work and instead generally point out the need for attention to those features without colouring the page with “red ink”.  
Conversely, the performance of weaker students may stem from a less refined understanding of the goals and assessment criteria, weaker adherence to robust task processes, and weaker domain  competence.  Therefore,  markers  have  much  more  leeway  in  terms  of  giving substantive comments that speak to the process and self-regulation, and possibly even giving content knowledge, rather than just identifying errors. Given that more sophisticated feedback was prioritised, it seems likely that less competent students would perceive that feedback as useful and enjoyable.  
Limitations  
A considerable limitation of this study is that it was underpowered. Therefore, generalising from these findings is not possible. Nevertheless, weak loadings on paths from conception factors to performance measures indicate that conceptions may play a role in how students use feedback. This warrants further investigation. Future studies with a larger sample size may  reveal  other  statistically  significant  paths.  It  should  also  be  noted  that  the  sample population was relatively homogenous in terms of age, stage, gender, degree (Science), entrance qual, and to some extent ethnicity (60% Pākehā). This creates a bounded setting ideal  for  capturing shared  understanding  of  experiences  within  a specific  context,  but  it precludes  generalising  from  the  findings.  It  is  possible  that  students  from  different demographics would experience the same situation differently. 
Another limitation arises from the artefacts used as datapoints. All data points were generated as part of the usual learning experience, which contributes to the validity of the findings. However, feedback use was inferred from self-reported student reflections and may not have captured the full range of ways that a student thought or felt about the markers’ feedback. Just because a third of participants did not report using feedback does not necessarily mean they did not think about or engage with it. Reflection captures what the student thought about or remembered at the time of writing, but not necessarily everything they did. Learner diaries could be an alternative that captures feedback use during the writing process and offers additional potential gains in terms of student metacognition, although at the expense of greater student workload. Focus groups could elucidate more details about feedback use, but they would be peripheral to the model because outputs are collective rather than individual.  
Scoring of markers’ comments has limitations because only the feedback level is considered. Relational variables such as tone, personalisation, encouragement, or praise have not been quantified here, nor has the volume of comments or whether the comments are past or future- focused. Quantifying markers’ comments on a more nuanced scale, or alternatively on multiple scales, may reveal different causal paths.  
Lastly, the study involved students’ responses to feedback within a two-week window of time. Markers’ comments were returned from assignment 1 two weeks prior to the submission of assignment 2. Apart from the overall course grade (which encompassed more content and skills than the assignments used in this study), students’ performance in later similar tasks was not evaluated. Therefore, this study does not lend itself to inferences about long-term effects of markers’ comments on students’ writing, nor does it provide information about changes in conceptions over time. 
Research Implications 
The study determined that student conceptions of feedback account for some of the variation in the effectiveness of situated feedback practices, but to a lesser degree than the content of markers’ comments or prior achievement level. The level of information in markers’ comments aligned with how students used feedback, but neither the markers’ comments nor student- reported feedback use predicted improvement in the subsequent assignment or the final course grade. Future studies investigating the lack of improvement could centre on student comprehension of comments and consider ways to untangle feedback messages from grades. A follow-up questionnaire was intended as part of this study to evaluate temporal changes in conceptions and elicit feedback from students about the utility of the marker’s comments and their affective responses to them, as well as information about other sources of feedback they used. It was unfortunate that the limited number of respondents invalidated the incorporation of this data into the model. This could have answered some of the questions raised in the discussion. Revisiting the study with future cohorts with a view to incorporating this information into the model could elucidate whether students’ comprehension of and confidence in the feedback, or affective dimensions (related to academic emotions, motivations, and goals), play a role in feedback use and performance improvement. Nevertheless, structural equation modelling was useful in illuminating some aspects of feedback practices in the course that warrant  further  attention.  Competent  students  received  lower-level  feedback  and  fewer comments than weaker students, which highlights a gap in the training of markers and future training should therefore include content such as how to give feedback to demonstrably capable students to extend their learning.  
Conclusions 
The findings from this initial attempt to unpack the role of student conceptions of feedback on learning improvement provide potentially important insights despite being based on a relatively small sample. This study provides empirical data that reinforces the notion that it is having productive conceptions of feedback that lead to greater use of feedback, greater improvement, and greater overall course performance. The study provides insights related to how instructors can support deeper and more effective conceptions of feedback, leading to more productive responses. Students who start university with the expectation that they will use feedback to determine the quality of their work improve more than those who do not hold this conception. Ensuring that feedback supports a positive affective response towards using feedback is likely to lead to learning gains. This raises questions about how to assist students in developing this awareness and acting on it. Importantly, this study points to the diversity of student responses to feedback based on their prior academic performance.  
ABOUT THE AUTHORS 
Caroline Aspden is a Professional Teaching Fellow in the School of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, The University of Auckland. Caroline is curious about assessment and feedback practices in the context of the first year transition to university. 
Amanda Harper is a senior tutor and director of stage one teaching in the School of Biological Sciences, Faculty of  Science,  The  University  of  Auckland.  Her  research  interests  are  formative  assessment  and  student engagement. Email: a.harper@auckland.ac.nz 
Gavin Brown is a professor of educational assessment and director of the Quantitative Data Analysis and Research Unit in the Faculty of Arts and Education at the University of Auckland. He is an expert in applied psychometrics and advanced statistical methods. He holds honorary positions at the Education University of Hong Kong and Thammasat University, Thailand. His research focuses on the psychological experiences of students and teachers in assessment processes and events. 
REFERENCES 
Ajzen, I. (2005). Attitudes, personality and behaviour (2nd ed.). McGraw-Hill Education (UK). Arbuckle, J. L. (2021). IBM SPSS Amos (Version 28.0) [Computer program]. 
IBM. https://amosdevelopment.com 
Biesanz, J. C. (2012). Autoregressive longitudinal models. In R. H. Hoyle (Ed.), Handbook of 
structural equation modeling (pp. 459–471). Guilford Press. 
Black, P., & Wiliam, D. (1998). Inside the black box: Raising standards through classroom 
assessment. King’s College London School of Education. 
Brown, G. T. L., & Zhao, A. (2023). In defence of psychometric measurement: A systematic review of contemporary self-report feedback inventories. Educational Psychologist, 58(3), 178–
192. https://doi.org/10.1080/00461520.2023.2208670 
Brown, G. T. L., Peterson, E. R., & Yao, E. S. (2016). Student conceptions of feedback: Impact on 
self-regulation, self-efficacy, and academic achievement. British Journal of Educational Psychology, 86(4), 606–629. https://doi.org/10.1111/bjep.12126 
Brown, G. T. L. (2011). Self-regulation of assessment beliefs and attitudes: A review of the Students' 
Conceptions of Assessment inventory. Educational Psychology, 31(6), 731–
748. https://doi.org/10.1080/01443410.2011.599836 
Carless, D., & Boud, D. (2018). The development of student feedback literacy: Enabling uptake of 
feedback. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 43(8), 1315–
1325. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2018.1463354 
Cho, K., & MacArthur, C. (2010). Student revision with peer and expert reviewing. Learning and 
Instruction, 20(4), 328–338. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2009.08.006 
Cohen, J. (2013). Statistical power analysis for the behavioral sciences (2nd ed.). Routledge. 
Gao, X., & Brown, G. T. (2023). The relation of students' conceptions of feedback to motivational 
beliefs and achievement goals: Comparing Chinese international students to New Zealand domestic students in higher education. Education Sciences, 13(11), 
1090. https://doi.org/10.3390/educsci13111090 
Harris, L. R., & Brown, G. T. (2013). Opportunities and obstacles to consider when using peer- and 
self-assessment to improve student learning: Case studies into teachers' 
implementation. Teaching and Teacher Education, 36, 101–
111. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tate.2013.07.008 
Harris, L. R., Brown, G. T., & Dargusch, J. (2018). Not playing the game: Student assessment 
resistance as a form of agency. The Australian Educational Researcher, 45(1), 125–
140. https://doi.org/10.1007/s13384-018-0264-0 
Harris, L. R., Brown, G. T., & Harnett, J. A. (2014). Understanding classroom feedback practices: A 
study of New Zealand student experiences, perceptions, and emotional 
responses. Educational Assessment, Evaluation and Accountability, 26(2), 107–
133. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11092-013-9187-5 
Hartwig, M. K., & Dunlosky, J. (2012). Study strategies of college students: Are self-testing and 
scheduling related to achievement? Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 19, 126–134. 
Hattie, J., & Timperley, H. (2007). The power of feedback. Review of Educational Research, 77(1), 
81–112. https://doi.org/10.3102/003465430298487 
Hovland, C. I., Lumsdaine, A. A., & Sheffield, F. D. (1955). A baseline for measurement of percentage 
change. In P. F. Lazarsfeld & M. Rosenberg (Eds.), The language of social research: A reader in the methodology of social research (pp. 72–82). The Free Press. 
Irving, S. E., & Peterson, E. R. (2007). Student conceptions of feedback (SCoF) inventory (version 
3) [Measurement instrument]. University of Auckland. 
Jessop, T., & Tomas, C. (2017). The implications of programme assessment patterns for student 
learning. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 42(6), 990–
999. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2016.1217501 
Kahan, B. C., Forbes, G., & Cro, S. (2020). How to design a pre-specified statistical analysis 
approach to limit p-hacking in clinical trials: The pre-SPEC framework. BMC Medicine, 18(1), 1–7. https://doi.org/10.1186/s12916-020-01706-7 
Kluger, A. N., & DeNisi, A. (1996). The effects of feedback interventions on performance: A historical 
review, a meta-analysis, and a preliminary feedback intervention theory. Psychological Bulletin, 119(2), 254–284. 
Lipnevich, A. A., & Smith, J. K. (2008). Response to assessment feedback: The effects of grades, 
praise, and source of information. ETS Research Report Series, 2008(1), i–57. 
Lipnevich, A. A., & Smith, J. K. (2009). Effects of differential feedback on students’ examination 
performance. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied, 15(4), 319–
331. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0017841 
Lipnevich, A. A., Guskey, T. R., Murano, D. M., & Smith, J. K. (2020). What do grades mean? 
Variation in grading criteria in American college and university courses. Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy & Practice, 27(5), 480–
500. https://doi.org/10.1080/0969594X.2020.1799190 
Nicol, D. J., & Macfarlane‐Dick, D. (2006). Formative assessment and self‐regulated learning: A 
model and seven principles of good feedback practice. Studies in Higher Education, 31(2), 199–218. https://doi.org/10.1080/03075070600572090 
Nicol, D., Thomson, A., & Breslin, C. (2014). Rethinking feedback practices in higher education: A 
peer review perspective. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 39(1), 102–
122. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2013.795518 
Panadero, E., & Lipnevich, A. A. (2022). A review of feedback models and typologies: Towards an 
integrative model of feedback elements. Educational Research Review, 35, 
100416. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.edurev.2021.100416 
Peterson, E. R., & Irving, S. E. (2008). Secondary school students' conceptions of assessment and 
feedback. Learning and Instruction, 18(3), 238–
250. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2007.05.001 
Shute, V. J. (2007). Focus on formative feedback. ETS Research Report Series, 2007(1), i–
47. https://doi.org/10.3102/0034654307313795 
Smith, C. P. (2000). Content analysis and narrative analysis. In H. T. Reis & C. M. Judd 
(Eds.), Handbook of research methods in social and personality psychology (pp. 313–335). Cambridge University Press. 
Thorndike, E. L., & Woodworth, R. S. (1901). The influence of improvement in one mental function 
upon the efficiency of other functions. II. The estimation of magnitudes. Psychological Review, 8(4), 384–395. 
Winstone, N. E., Nash, R. A., Parker, M., & Rowntree, J. (2017). Supporting learners' agentic 
engagement with feedback: A systematic review and a taxonomy of recipience 
processes. Educational Psychologist, 52(1), 17– 37. https://doi.org/10.1080/00461520.2016.1207538. ◼
Asian Journal of the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning  2025, Vol. 15, No. 1
