European Journal of Psychology of Education (2026) 41:67 https://doi.org/10.1007/s10212-026-01087-0
The affective cost ofmisc alibration: Effects ofdisc overing self‑assessment accuracy onemotions andself ‑efficacy
LeirePinedo1  · ErnestoPanadero1,2,3  · JavierFernández‑Ruiz4  · DanielGarcía‑Pérez5  · GavinT.L.Brown6 
Received: 27 March 2025 / Revised: 22 December 2025 / Accepted: 10 March 2026 /  Published online: 1 May 2026 © The Author(s) 2026
Abstract
The alignment of self-assessment judgements to formal grading (i.e., accuracy) is an essential process by which students calibrate their thinking about work quality to disciplinary standards. However, extensive research shows that students are not well-calibrated in their self-assess- ments. Relatively little is known about how the realism of self-assessment affects positive or negative emotions and self-efficacy. In this study, we examined the relationships between self- assessment accuracy (over- or under-estimation) and students’ emotions and self-efficacy. A total of 112 higher education students wrote an essay, self-assessed their performance, received feedback, self-assessed again, and subsequently received the tutor grades for their essays, creat- ing a potential discrepancy between self-assessment and tutor assessment grades. Based on the sequence of events in the experiment, we used autoregressive path modeling to examine the repeated measures relationship of emotions and self-efficacy over time. Starting values for the two emotions and self-efficacy were strong predictors across time. The discrepancy between tutor and self-assessed grades was introduced after two rounds of self-reported emotions and self-efficacy and regressed onto the third round of those variables. Students who overestimated their performance experienced a decline in positive emotions, an increase in negative emotions, and a decrease in self-efficacy when confronted with their inaccuracies. In contrast, those who had underestimated their performance had a concomitant increase in positive emotions and self- efficacy, and a decrease in negative emotions. This study highlights the importance of foster- ing self-assessment accuracy for emotional well-being and self-efficacy. Future research should delve deeper into processes that support calibrated realism in student self-assessment.
Keywords Self-assessment· Self-assessment accuracy· Self-efficacy· Emotions· Higher education
Introduction
Extensive research in educational psychology and education has found that self-assessment has positive effects on students’ academic performance, self- regulation and self-efficacy (e.g., Panadero et al., 2017; Yan et al., 2022). Student self-assessments tend to diverge considerably 
Extended author information available on the last page of the article


The affective cost ofmiscalibr ation: Effects ofdisc overing… Page 15 of 22  67
from accepted disciplinary or professional standards, meaning that novices find realism in their self-assessments difficult (Boud & Falchikov, 1989). It is noteworthy that this prob- lem is not restricted to students; it exists across many fields of knowledge (Dunning et al., 2004). Accuracy is essential in self-assessment, so students make appropriate decisions about strengths and areas for improvement, leading to appropriate adjustments to their learning strat- egies and efforts (León et al., 2023; Panadero et al., 2016a). Consistent with calls to exam- ine self-assessment from new perspectives and with other constructs beyond score alignment (Andrade, 2019; Lui & Andrade, 2022; Panadero et al., 2016a), this study adds to our under- standing of how accuracy in self-assessment relates to achievement emotions and self-reported self-efficacy by experimentally examining self-assessment practices in a longitudinal design.
Self‑assessment definition andaccuracy
Self-assessment “involves a wide variety of mechanisms and techniques through which stu- dents describe (i.e., assess) and possibly assign merit or worth to (i.e., evaluate) the quali- ties of their own learning processes and products” (Panadero et al., 2016a, p. 804), thereby enabling students to correctly identify their strengths and weaknesses, and informing next steps in learning. It is considered a metacognitive activity, as students need to monitor, evalu- ate their own performance and interpret evidence about their progress (Zimmerman, 2008). These metacognitive processes enable students to generate informed evaluations rather than intuitive guesses. As such, the accuracy of self-assessment depends partly on the effective- ness of students’ metacognitive monitoring and evaluation.
While research has established factors that lead to greater or lesser alignment of student self-assessments with instructors’ expertise (Boud & Falchikov, 1989; Brown & Harris, 2013; León etal., 2023), the processes students use to self-assess have been less explored (e.g., Panadero et al., 2024; Yan & Brown, 2017). Because educational self-assessment usually happens at the request or instruction of teachers (Panadero etal., 2014), it is impor- tant to identify how those teacher-specified practices relate to self-regulated learning and emotional responses. Ideally, students whose self-assessments are well-calibrated with the judgments of their teachers will have greater self-efficacy and positive emotional responses in the process of self-assessment.
Some researchers have indicated that it is not important whether students can estimate properly  their  grades  or  not  (Andrade,  2019).  Other  researchers  have  called  for  “con- tent accuracy” which might be as important as scoring accuracy (Panadero et al., 2016a, 2016b). Others have advocated a student-centered learning approach for self-assessment in which students consider their work in light of their own learning interests rather than those of the curriculum or instructor (Bourke, 2017; Tan, 2008). Nevertheless, becoming a member of a discipline requires learning how to evaluate one’s own work in accordance with norms and standards of that discipline; that means self-assessment can function as an approach to learning professional standards (Tai et al., 2018). Empirical research also shows that when students self-grade their work, their performance increased in subsequent testing against control groups (Sanchez et al., 2017). However, this improvement may depend on specific conditions,as León et al.’s (2023) meta-analysis showed that tenden- cies to over-estimate one’s performance could be decreased if students received feedback, had more experience with self-assessment, had greater content knowledge, and embraced the formative purpose of self-assessment. Nevertheless, existing literature suggests that the consequences of discrepancies between student self-assessment and instructor evaluation may depend on the direction of the miscalibration. Butler (2011) proposes that positive illusions about academic competence may be less problematic than negative ones; how- ever,  when  overly  optimistic  self-assessments  are  confronted  with  lower-than-expected external evaluations, such discrepancies may generate emotional costs. This possibility remains underexplored empirically. Thus, understanding how under- and over-estimation of ability relate to self-efficacy and achievement emotions is of great interest.
It is important to acknowledge that instructor evaluations also entail subjective judg- ments, particularly in open-ended assessments such as essays. In this study, instructor scores are used as a reference benchmark, not as an unquestionable truth, in line with established quantitative approaches to examining self-assessment accuracy (e.g., Boud & Falchikov, 1989; Brown etal., 2015; Panadero etal., 2016a, b).
Impact ofself ‑assessment accuracy onemotions
Achievement  emotions,  conceptualized  by  Pekrun’s  Control-Value  Theory  (CVT),  are “emotions that are directly linked to achievement activities or achievement outcomes” (Pekrun et al., 2011, p. 37). According to this theory, achievement emotions arise from students’ appraisals of control (i.e., their perceived ability to influence outcomes) and value (i.e., the importance they attribute to the task) (Pekrun etal., 2011). These emotions can be classified along three dimensions: valence (positive vs. negative), activation (activating vs. deactivating), object focus (activity vs. outcome) (Pekrun etal., 2023a). For instance, when students feel a high sense of control and value over a task, they are more likely to experi- ence positive emotions such as pride (activating emotion), while negative emotions (e.g., activating anxiety or deactivating boredom) tend to decrease (Shao etal., 2020).
A crucial moment affecting emotions is the reception of performance feedback, as it shapes students’ appraisals of control and value (Goetz etal., 2018; Pekrun etal., 2023b). Receiving a score can be perceived as a sign of success or failure, influencing emotional responses. Empirical research reports that higher scores or grades are positively correlated with positive emotions and negatively correlated with negative emotions (Pekrun et al., 2023b). Likewise, students who received lower grades than anticipated often experienced negative emotions (Jonsson & Panadero, 2018; Pitt & Norton, 2017) like disappointment, frustration, and panic (Lipnevich & Smith, 2009). In parallel, Peterson etal. (2015) found that changes in emotions had meaningful relations to test scores and GPA once students knew their scores, with higher-performing students having greater levels of positive emo- tions and lower levels of negative emotions, compared to lower-performers. Negative emo- tions can have detrimental effects on student’s engagement with the task, leading to disen- gagement from feedback, and reduced motivation (Lim etal., 2021).
Impact ofself ‑assessment accuracy onself ‑efficacy
Self-efficacy refers to an individual’s belief in their ability to succeed in a specific task (Bandura, 1997). Self-efficacy has shown to be one of the main predictors for academic performance (Richardson et al., 2012). As a dynamic component of the self-regulated learning cycle, self-efficacy is based on judgements of past experiences of one’s ability, and that can change during a learning task (Bernacki etal., 2015). Unfortunately, changes in self-efficacy over time in an assessment context have not been extensively studied (Hon- icke etal., 2023).
Nonetheless, when students accurately assess their performance, they become more aware of their progress, which can lead to an increased confidence and a stronger sense of self-efficacy (Andrade, 2019). A meta-analysis (Panadero et al., 2017) concluded this relationship has a strong positive effect (d = 0.73); self-assessment interventions increase self-efficacy. Indeed, when students accurately self-assess their task performance their self- efficacy improves because it fosters a sense of mastery (Bandura, 1997). Simultaneously, students with higher self-efficacy are more likely to engage in self-assessment (Yan, 2020) because they trust their ability to monitor and evaluate their own performance.
The bidirectional effect of self-efficacy and performance is well established, with posi- tive performance leading to increased self-efficacy and vice versa (Honicke et al., 2023). However, the positive effect of performance on self-efficacy is likely to be significantly larger than the reverse effect of self-efficacy on performance (Talsma et al., 2018). For instance, Villafane et al. (2016) found that positive exam experiences increased students’ self-efficacy, while poor performance led to its decline. Similarly, Honicke et al. (2023) suggested that students rely on previous performance to develop self-efficacy beliefs, with successful task performance helping to calibrate efficacy judgements. This aligns with Bandura’s (1997) theory of self-efficacy, which identifies prior performance and learning experiences as primary sources of efficacy beliefs.
According to Bandura, we therefore hypothesize that students’ self-efficacy may be associated with their realization of the relative accuracy of their self-assessments. Spe- cifically, when students discover that their actual performance is higher than their self- estimation, their self-efficacy will increase as they have a clearer understanding of their performance. Conversely, when students discover a lower performance than their self- assessment, their self-efficacy may decline. This hypothesis aligns with evidence show- ing that receiving lower grades negatively affects self-efficacy (Jonsson & Panadero, 2018; Lipnevich & Smith, 2009).
However, evidence that these principles apply equally to self-assessment is lacking. Exploring this relationship will contribute to our understanding of how students’ percep- tions of their own abilities (i.e., self-assessments) are related to the external measures, such as instructors’ scores. Additionally, this could reveal critical factors shaping self-efficacy, including the role of feedback and the alignment (or misalignment) between self-percep- tion and actual performance.
Aim
Our aim was to examine changes in students’ emotions and self-efficacy following the discovery of discrepancies in the accuracy of their self-assessment. The hypotheses (H) are as follows:
H1:  Discrepancy  between  instructor’s  score  and  self-score  will  be  associated  with positive emotions. Overestimating performance will decrease positive emotions, while underestimating actual performance will increase them.
H2: Discrepancy between instructor’s score and self-score will be associated with nega- tive  emotions.  Overestimating  performance  will  increase  negative  emotions,  while underestimating actual performance will decrease them.
H3: Discrepancy between instructor’s score and self-score will be associated with self- efficacy. Overestimating performance will decrease self-efficacy, while underestimating actual performance will increase it, as per Bandura’s (1997) assertions about the impact of performance accomplishments.
Method
This study employed an experimental, between-subjects design with random assignment to one of three treatment conditions. It was approved by the University Ethics Committee atUniversidad Autónoma de Madrid (Reference: CEI-84–1557).
Sample
A convenience sample of 126 undergraduate psychology students was recruited from the university where the second author was employed at the time. Due to missing data, the final sample comprised 112 students (89% females) from first (n = 39), second (n = 38), and third year (n = 35) levels. Participants were randomly assigned to one of the three feed- back conditions: instructor’s feedback (n = 36), rubric (n = 38), and a combined condition of instructor’s feedback and rubric (n = 38). Participants received credits for participation. The final sample size (n = 112) was appropriate for the subsequent path analysis. Although moderate, this sample size provides sufficient statistical power for the autoregressive path model employed here (Curran & Bollen, 2001), especially given that the study’s primary aim is not the detection of small-magnitude effects or applied prediction, but rather the examination of longitudinal change patterns. A detailed justification for the sample size’s adequacy regarding the model complexity is presented in the Data Analysis section.
Note, in this study we do not consider the effect of type of feedback, just the changes in students’ emotions and self-efficacy that occur when they discover the discrepancy between their self-estimate and instructor grades. Other studies from those data can be found at Panadero etal. (2022; 2024).
Data collection andinstrumen ts
The data included the instructor’s essay score, students’ self-assessment accuracy, and longitudinal data consisting of three dependent variables (i.e., positive emotions, nega- tive  emotions,  and  self-efficacy).  The  dependent  variables  were  measured  three  times: (1) before performing the self-assessment but with students knowing they were about to self-assess, (2) right after the self-assessment, and (3) right after receiving the instructor’s score.
Academic writing self‑efficacy questionnaire
This ad-hoc instrument measures students’ perceptions of self-efficacy when writing an academic text. It included eight items and used a 7-point rating scale ranging from “abso- lutely disagree” to “absolutely agree” (See Appendix B). The internal consistency for the three measurement occasions was: before self-assessment (α = 0.78), before feedback (α = 0.80), and after feedback (α = 0.87). Confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) was con- ducted to confirm the unidimensional structure of the instrument. Due to the violation of multivariate normality (Mardia Skewness = 181.21, p < .001; Mardia Kurtosis = 1.89, p = .059), diagonally weighted least squares (DWLS) was used. All fit indices met the rec- ommended thresholds except for the SRMR that was slight above the recommended value (Schreiber et al., 2006): χ2/df = 1.60,  p = .21; RMSEA = 0.075, 90% CI [0.013, 0.121]; CFI = 0.981; TLI = 0.974; SRMR = 0.097. Additionally, the model showed positive item factor loadings (p < .001) with a range from 0.38 to 0.81.
Emotions questionnaire
This ad-hoc instrument was based on 9 basic academic emotions from Pekrun et al. (2002). Four positive emotions (i.e., joy, hope, pride, and relief) and five negative emotions (i.e., anxiety,  embarrassment,  sadness,  boredom,  and  anger)  were  included.  In  addition,  we included “nervousness” as a sixth negative emotion, considering that in our study context -where participants were recorded and observed-it could be especially relevant. Therefore, the final instrument comprised 10 emotions in total. The rating scale ranged from 1, very low intensity, to 10, maximum intensity. We also used the DWLS estimation method as the multivariate distribution was non-normal (Mardia Skewness = 647.16, p < .001; Mardia Kur- tosis = 6.99, p < .001). A two-factor solution had acceptable to good fit (χ2/df = 1.30, p = .25; RMSEA = 0.051, 90% CI [0.000, 0.090]; CFI = 0.975; TLI = 0.967; SRMR = 0.095). The positive emotions factor had statistically significant (p < .001), positive item factor loadings, ranging from 0.67 to 0.81, and the negative emotions factor also had statistically significant (p < .05), positive item factor loadings, ranging from 0.25 to 0.83. The reliability indices were α = 0.93 for positive emotions, and α = 0.90 for negative emotions. Consistent with the logi- cally inverse factor meanings, the correlation between the two factors was negative, but not statistically significant (r = −0.214, p = .065).
Instructor’s score
The instructor’s score was based on the students’ performance in the essay that they wrote for the study, using a rubric designed for the study. The scores were between 0 and 10. Two people, the second author and the seminar instructor (4th author), independently assessed and scored one-third of the essays using an analytic rubric specifically designed for this study (See Appendix A). This produced high agreement between markers and strong align- ment with the rubric categories (Intra-class Correlation .91). Subsequently, the seminar instructor scored the remaining essays.
Self‑assessment accuracy
The self-assessment accuracy was calculated by computing the difference between the stu- dent’s score and the instructor’s score (Schraw, 2009). We considered not only the differ- ence but also the directionality. A positive self-assessment accuracy score indicates that the student scored their own work higher than the instructor, whereas a negative score indi- cated an underestimated self-scoring. The accuracy range obtained was −3.8 to + 4.
Procedure
Participants attended a three-hour seminar on academic writing and wrote an essay. The essay was related to the students’ psychology programme but did not have any implication for their academic record. After a few days, the participants individually visited the laboratory. Findings derived from the interview (Step 1) and the experimen- tal phase regarding the think-aloud protocols (Step 4) have been presented in previous publications (Panadero et al., 2022; 2024; Pinedo et al., 2023). Data for this study were obtained in Steps 2, 3, 5, and 6.
1. Participants were interviewed about their self-assessment practices (i.e., self-assessment training, processes, and use of feedback).
2. Participants received instruction in the experimental phase, and they completed the emotion and self-efficacy questionnaires for the first time.
3. Participants were asked to self-assess their own essay by thinking aloud and then, giving their essay a score from 0 to 10. Immediately after this self-assessment, they completed the emotion and self-efficacy questionnaires again.
4. Participants received feedback according to the feedback condition they were assigned to (i.e., rubric, instructor’s feedback, or a combination of both). Then, they were asked to self-assess their own essay in light of the feedback, using a think-aloud method.
5. All participants received the instructor’s score for their essays, together with the self- score.
6. Participants participated in an interview and completed the emotion and self-efficacy questionnaires for the third time (Fig. 1).

Note. Data in this study obtained from self-reported inventory responses shown in blue boxes
Fig. 1  Procedure of the study
Data analysis
Given the large number of manifest variables in the model (18 emotions and self-efficacy items * three waves) and the modest sample size (n = 112), all factors were reduced to item parcels according to the confirmatory factor analysis. Parcelling into scale scores was deemed appropriate because the CFA results supported a clear and theoretically coherent factorial structure for each construct with robust scale reliability. Parcel scores are known to reduce item-specific random error and enhance the stability of parameter estimates in structural models (Little et al., 2013). This reduced the model to nine manifest variables for self-efficacy and the two emotions. With the addition of the discrepancy score, this approach produced a robust case to variable ratio (12.6:1; Costello & Osborne, 2005).
Because the self-efficacy and emotion questionnaires were administered together at the three time-points, their values were inter-correlated within each data wave. We used path model analysis to examine the relationship between variables over time, and the changes in the variables when the event of discovering a discrepancy score occurred. Specifically, we used autoregressive path modelling with manifest scores as it is considered an effective approach with small sample sizes (Curran & Bollen, 2001). Autoregressive path models assume each measure is predicted by itself immediately prior to the new measurement. Cross-lagged paths, which refer to the influence of one variable on another over time, were also tested. This means examining whether self-efficacy could predict changes in emo- tions (positive or negative) over time and whether emotions could predict changes in self- efficacy. However, none of the cross-lag paths were statistically significant, so they were excluded from the model (i.e., set to zero).
Models can be considered close to the data and not rejected when the most robust fit indices meet established standards: an acceptable model includes a non-significant nor- med χ2 (i.e., χ2/df < 3.80), Comparative Fit Index (CFI) > .90, Root Mean Square Error of Approximation (RMSEA) < .08, and the Standardized Root Mean Residual (SRMR) is ≈.06 (Fan & Sivo, 2007).
Additionally, we tested the equivalence of the model across feedback conditions through multigroup invariance testing. This requires constraining the model to be equivalent for each parameter, assessing the fit statistics, and moving on to the next parameter test when the fit indices showed equivalence across the parameter values (Brown et al., 2017). The sequence of invariance testing is (1) identical configuration of factors, items, and paths (configural equivalence), (2) factor to item regression weights (metric invariance), and 
(3) item intercepts (scalar invariance). This level of equivalence is required to compare means. However, because the model does not have latent variables, only metric invariance is required. A good indicator of equivalent regression weights is a small change in CFI (≤ .01) (Cheung & Rensvold, 2002). All analysis was carried out using AMOS software using maximum-likelihood estimation.
Results
The results are organized into three sections. First, we present the results from the autore- gressive path model, examining the changes in emotions and self-efficacy over time. Next, we analyse the impact of discovering discrepancies in the accuracy of self-assessment on emotions and self-efficacy. Finally, we report the results of the invariance testing of the model across the feedback conditions.
Emotions andself ‑efficacy overtime
The  autoregressive  path  model  for  describing  changes  in  emotions  and  self-efficacy after discovering discrepancies in the accuracy of self-assessment is shown in Figure 2. It had an acceptable fit to the data (χ2 = 21.27;  df = 27;  χ2/df = .78,  p = .77; CFI = 1.00; RMSEA = .000, [90% CI = .000–.052]; SRMR = .07). The path model revealed that both positive and negative emotions had autoregressive characteristics in their relationship to each other, with the strength of the paths decreasing across time.
For positive emotions, the path coefficient between Time 1 to Time 2 was β = .87, but the strength of the path decreased in the subsequent interval (i.e., Time 2 to Time 3 β = .67). Simultaneously, positive emotion means increased over time: Time 1 (M = 4.92 SD = 1.64), Time 2 (M = 5.18, SD = 1.70), and Time 3 (M = 5.86, SD = 1.94) (See Fig.3). This suggests that, on average, participants reported greater positive emotions as the study progressed.
Similarly,  for  negative  emotions,  the  path  coefficients  also  demonstrated  a  decline across time (Time 1 to Time 2, β = .88; Time 2 to Time 3, β = .76). The means for negative emotions declined over time: Time 1 (M = 3.32, SD = 1.37), Time 2 (M = 3.05, SD = 1.33), and Time 3 (M = 2.63, SD = 1.27) (Fig.3). This decline suggests that participants generally experienced fewer negative emotions as they progressed through the study.
However, the path coefficients for self-efficacy increased over time (i.e., Time 1 to Time 2, β = .68; Time 2 to Time 3, β = .76). The means for self-efficacy remained reasonably stable: Time 1 (M = 3.94, SD = 0.73), Time 2 (M = 3.95, SD = 0.84), and Time 3 (M = 4.07, SD = 1.01). This suggests that the self-efficacy was stable, with a trivial increase (d = .15) between Time 1 and Time 3.

Note: All values are standardized beta regression weights; positive values for self-assessment accuracy   indicate positive illusions of competence, while negative values indicate negative illusions of competence;  the negative values of the beta regression weights are represented by dashed lines; correlational values    > .90 are statistically significant (p < .001) within the sample size. 
Fig. 2  Autoregressive path model for predicting changes in emotions and self-efficacy after discovering dis- crepancies in the accuracy of self-assessment

Note. Before self-assessment refers to the phase before the self-assessment task began, when participants completed the initial questionnaire. Self-assessment refers to the phase in which students assess their own essays before receiving any feedback. Post-feedback refers to the phase after students received the scores on their essays
Fig. 3  Mean scores for self-efficacy, and emotions questionnaires by phase
Changes inemotions andself‑efficacy followingself‑assessment discrepancy
The  average  self-assessment  score  (M = 6.67,  SD = 1.16)  was  slightly  lower  than  the instructor’s score (M = 7.01,  SD = 1.82), resulting in an average self-assessment accuracy of −0.35 (SD = 1.90). This suggests a general tendency toward underestimation, meaning that, on average, students rated their own performance slightly lower than the instructor did. Nevertheless, the discrepancy is well within tolerances as reported by Boud and Fal- chikov (1989) for reasonably accurate self-assessment.
The impact of discrepancy on the emotions and self-efficacy of participants were robust. Because the model includes autoregressive paths for emotions and self-efficacy, prior lev- els of each variable are controlled. As a result, the estimated impact of self-assessment discrepancy can be interpreted as measuring changes in emotions and self-efficacy after controlling for prior levels of emotions and self-efficacy.
Participants with over-estimation scores had reduced positive emotions (β = -.53) and self-efficacy (β = -.42), while also exhibiting increased negative emotions (β = .39). Con- versely, these path values indicate that students who underestimated their performance experienced the opposite effect; more positive emotions, less negative emotions, and more self-efficacy. Therefore, the results align with hypotheses H1, H2, and H3, revealing that the direction of self-assessment inaccuracy (overestimation vs. underestimation) is signifi- cantly associated with changes in students’ emotions and self-efficacy beliefs.
Invariance acrossf eedback conditions
Although the present study does not aim to model between-group differences by feedback condition, invariance testing was conducted to examine whether the structural relations of interest were equivalent across conditions. The model had statistically equivalent regres- sion weights (i.e., metric equivalence) (ΔCFI = .002) across all the feedback conditions. This means that the type of feedback provided (rubric, feedback, or combined) did not significantly influence the results seen in Fig. 2. Specifically, whatever form the feedback took, the impact of discrepancy (over-estimation vs under-estimation) was stable.
Discussion
We investigated how discovering discrepancies in the accuracy of self-assessment affects students’ emotions and self-efficacy. Although the associations observed were statistically robust, the average magnitude of change was modest, which is to be expected given that they followed a single academic task. Importantly, even relatively small changes are theo- retically meaningful in this context, given the central role of discrepancy discovery in shap- ing students’ emotional responses and self-efficacy beliefs.
Impact onemotions
The autoregressive patterns of emotions found in our study align with previous research, showing considerable stability of emotions over time (Pekrun et al. 2017; 2023b). The gradual decrease in the negative emotion and the increase in positive emotions suggests that as students engage repeatedly in self-assessment, their emotional state became more positive. This could be attributable to greater familiarity with the experimental setup, or possibly greater familiarity with the self-assessment process.
Additionally,  our  findings  highlight  the  emotional  consequences  of  the  discrepancy between self-assessment and external teacher scores. Students who overestimated their performance and faced this discrepancy experienced a decrease in positive emotions and an increase of negative emotions. This aligns with Pekrun’s Control Value Theory (2011), which proposes that emotions are directly related to perceptions of control and value. Real- izing that you received a lower score than expected could affect students’ perceived control over academic outcomes and trigger negative emotions such as frustration or disappoint- ment (Lipnevich & Smith, 2009; Pitt & Norton, 2017). This relationship between perfor- mance expectations and emotions is further supported by research showing a positive cor- relation between grades and positive emotions and a negative correlation between grades and negative emotions (Pekrun et al., 2023b). Similarly, Peterson et al. (2015) found that emotions have a meaningful relationship with achievement once students received their test scores, with lower achievers reporting lower levels of positive emotions and higher levels of negative emotions.
A possible explanation for this emotional response lies in self-assessment accuracy. When students discover that the performance they expected does not align with reality as represented by the instructor’s score, this inaccuracy leads to understandable emotional reactions. For some students, receiving a lower score than anticipated may be interpreted as unfair or unexpected, which could evoke emotions such as frustration, disappointment, and anger (Jonsson & Panadero, 2018; Pekrun et al., 2023a, b). These negative emotions have been shown to lead to disengagement with feedback (Lim etal., 2021), which could, in turn, reduce the opportunity students have to use the feedback to learn what they need to do to improve their performance (Jonsson & Panadero, 2018). To mitigate these negative emotional consequences, future studies should explore interventions designed to (a) help students become more realistic or calibrated in their self-assessments (Brown & Harris, 2014) or (b) support students in coping with discovering their own self-assessment inaccu- racy so that they have greater ability to engage with feedback constructively (i.e., increase student feedback literacy; Yan & Carless, 2021). In classroom settings, instructors might consider providing formative assessment across the learning process, allowing students to practice self-assessment, revise their work, and reduce the difference between their self- assessment and actual performance.
Impact onself ‑efficacy
Regarding self-efficacy, because mean scores remained almost identical across time, this suggests that students did not recalibrate their self-competence perceptions as they engaged in the experimental process. However, the introduction of the accuracy or discrepancy information seems to have changed the basis of their self-efficacy ratings. Self-efficacy for writing was impacted when the self-assessment of their own essay did not align with the teacher grading, both positively or negatively. This is consistent with research that shows academic performance consistently predicted subsequent levels of self-efficacy (Honicke etal., 2023). What is surprising is how strongly self-efficacy shifted after discovering what was on average a relatively small discrepancy across the sample between self-assessed marks and teacher marks.
Clearly, students who over-estimated the quality of their writing had their self-efficacy for writing dented by a considerable margin (i.e., 2/5 of a standard deviation), discover- ing that they had over-estimated their performance decreased their sense of mastery and, consequently, their confidence in their ability to succeed similar tasks. Conversely, when students experienced a mark higher than their own self-assessment, their self-efficacy was increased by reinforcing their perceptions of competence. This aligns with Bandura (1997) who argued that self-efficacy is sensitive to mastery experiences and feedback, with mas- tery experience being the strongest predictor of self-efficacy (Britner & Pajares, 2006; Usher & Pajares, 2008).
This result contributes to the literature on factors shaping students’ self-efficacy by providing empirical evidence for the relationship between self-assessment accuracy and self-efficacy. Particularly, we found that knowing how accurate one’s self-assessment had been helped students to become more aware of their actual performance. This awareness prompted them to adjust their self-efficacy beliefs towards a more realistic and hopefully adaptative state. While previous studies have highlighted the need of feedback to improve self-assessment accuracy (Brown etal., 2015; Panadero etal., 2016a, b), our results extend this understanding by showing that gaining knowledge of how accurate their self-assess- ment had been also helped calibrate their self-efficacy. Feedback from the teacher helps students become more realistic in their self-efficacy estimates. This result is relevant for teachers designing self-assessment practices, as delivering feedback about the realism of self-assessments can help students better understand their performance and develop more realistic beliefs.
Overall, our findings provide a nuanced perspective on Butler (2011), who suggested that optimistic illusions are generally less problematic than negative ones. Our results indi- cate, however, that overestimation of performance can have tangible costs, affecting stu- dents’ emotional and self-efficacy responses. This highlights that even optimistic percep- tions of competence may not always be beneficial, particularly when discrepancies with actual performance are revealed. Importantly, the consequences of positive self-evaluative biases are likely to vary across contexts, suggesting that their impact depends on factors such as task type, learning environment, and individual differences.
Fostering self‑assessment accuracy tosuppor t emotions andself ‑efficacy
Given our findings on the emotional and motivational costs of overestimation, it is cru- cial to consider ways that teachers can foster self-assessment accuracy and, in doing so, help mitigate negative emotional responses and support students’ self-efficacy. First, under- standing the reasons students have to over- or under-estimate their performance is essential for effective intervention. Overestimation may stem from optimistic biases, limited domain knowledge, or a reduced understanding of assessment criteria, while underestimation is often linked to low self-efficacy, perfectionism, or conservative scoring tendencies shaped by prior academic experiences (Brown et al., 2015; Dunning et al., 2004; Panadero et al., 2016a, b; Pinedo et al., 2025).To mitigate these biases and promote better calibration, teachers can help students develop more accurate self-assessments by focusing on three key areas. Teachers should ensure criteria are explicit and supported by exemplars to create a shared understanding of quality, reducing uncertainty and emotional stress. Second, imple- menting  formative  assessment practices that allow students to practice self-assessment and compare their judgments with external standards (e.g., the teacher’s score or a model answer) provides essential opportunities for calibration. Finally, teachers should focus on constructive feedback and reflection, which means providing feedback that specifically addresses the accuracy of the self-assessment itself, encouraging reflection on the discrep- ancies observed. In sum, fostering accurate self-assessments goes beyond helping students understand their performance: it helps them understand when their expectations differ from feedback, manage their emotions, and build their confidence, turning each assessment into a chance to learn and grow.
Limitations andfutur e lines ofr esearch
Several methodological limitations should be acknowledged. The study took place in a specific domain (academic writing in psychology), educational level (higher education), and country (Spain), and did not consider how sociocultural or gender-related factors may influence  students’  self-assessment  processes.  Conducting  similar  studies  across  vari- ous subjects, task types, and levels of education could provide valuable insights about the generalisability of these results. This is especially needed in secondary education, where research is limited (León et al., 2023), or in domains like science, which have previously been found to yield more accurate self-assessments (Falchikov & Boud, 1989).
Although  the  study  employed  a  longitudinal  design  and  autoregressive  modelling, causal inferences should be interpreted with caution and within the specific context of this study. While the sample size was adequate for the autoregressive path model, larger sam- ples would allow the estimation of more complex models, including fully latent variable models and additional longitudinal relations. The use of item parcelling maintained an appropriate ratio between cases and parameters, given the modest sample size. Future stud- ies with larger samples could model emotions and self-efficacy as latent constructs using individual items, avoiding the need for parcelling.
Additionally, since emotional data was collected through a questionnaire, our ability to understand the specific reasons behind students’ emotional experiences is limited. Addi- tionally, this study did not investigate whether the students questioned the accuracy or fair- ness of the instructor’s assigned scores. This may be an important factor shaping emotional responses and self-efficacy, as perceiving a score as unfair could amplify negative emotions or reduce engagement with feedback. Finally, data regarding task value or perceived con- trol during the self-assessment were not collected; however, these are essential factors to understand relationship between appraisals, emotions and self-assessment (Pekrun et al., 2023a). To address these limitations, subsequent studies could collect additional measures to capture these contextual factors and include qualitative methods to better understand stu- dents’ experiences and underlying reasons for their emotional responses during self-assess- ment. In addition, examining whether feedback that reveals inaccuracies in self-assigned scores can improve both self-assessment accuracy and self-efficacy in later tasks would shed light on how feedback facilitates calibration of performance and confidence over time. Investigating interventions designed to enhance self-assessment accuracy and examining their broader impact on psychological variables such as emotions and motivation could further advance our understanding of these processes.
Conclusion
The main contribution of this study lies in its revelation that feedback as to the realism of self-assessments matters to both those with optimistic and pessimistic illusions of perfor- mance. Overly optimistic students experienced negative feelings and reduced self-efficacy, while more pessimistic students felt better and had greater task confidence. This raises doubts about the general benefit of having optimistic illusions about competence (But- ler, 2011). Mitigating overestimation, in particular, may help reduce negative emotional responses and foster the development of more stable self-efficacy beliefs. This study shows that students who want to feel better about assessed activities when they get their marks should be more modest in their self-assessments. This modesty bias does not imply under- valuing one’s abilities but encourages aligning self-assessments with external standards, reducing emotional disappointment, and supporting more stable self-efficacy. Importantly, the role of teachers is critical in scaffolding these processes. By providing clear assessment criteria, constructive feedback, and opportunities for formative assessment, instructors can guide students to practice self-assessment, reflect on performance discrepancies, and use these experiences as a resource for learning and self-regulation (Andrade, 2019; Brown etal., 2015).
Further, this study shows that feedback that reveals an over-estimation does have a nega- tive emotional and motivational impact on learners. The study does not reveal if students used this apparently negative feedback to improve performance, which would be consistent with students who understand feedback exists to support improved learning (Brown etal., 2016). Teachers cannot deny learners access to the truth about their performance to protect their psycho-emotional state. Hence, all learners must learn how to be realistic and modest in their self-evaluations. This, of course, is not easy given human predilections to over- estimating their abilities and work (Dunning etal., 2004). Herein lies the challenge for both teacher and learner; the former must know how to give truthful feedback and help students cope with the inevitable emotional reaction, while the latter has to learn how to embrace disappointing results as a learning process.
These insights contribute to a deeper understanding of the psychological mechanisms underlying the impact of accuracy or realism on self-assessment. By demonstrating how score discrepancy impacts emotions and self-efficacy, our findings highlight the emotional challenges students face when self-assessment is contrasted with external assessments.
Appendix A
Rubric
Category Low quality Average quality High quality
Writing process I started writing the text  2 options: Before writing, I thor- 
without planning what  a) Before writing, I have  oughly planned what I I wanted to write. I  planned what I wanted  wanted to tell and how have hardly reread  to communicate. At  I was going to do it. I what I was writing  the end, I have hardly  reviewed while I was and, when I finished,  reviewed the text or I  writing and, at the end, I have not reviewed  have only looked for  I also reviewed the full the text or I have only  misspellings text at least once
looked for misspell- b) I started writing  While reviewing, I 
ings without thinking much  looked for all or some 
about what I wanted  of these factors: Text 
to tell. However, I  structure, coherence reviewed the text sev-  and connection between eral times, looking for  paragraphs, clarity of all or some of these  the message, style, and factors: Text struc-  spelling
ture, coherence and 
connection between 
paragraphs, clarity of 
the message, style, and 
spelling
Category Low quality Average quality High quality
Text components: Struc- There is no clear  A structure is somehow  There is a very clear 
ture and coherence/  structure, with an  present (introduction,  structure in the text: connection between  introduction, a crux,  crux, and closure) but  including opening, argu- paragraphs and a closing could be more clearly  ment crux and closing
Lack of incorrect use of  delimited Connectors  Ideas are connected and text connectors and/or  are most of the times  presented in well-organ- discourse markers used appro- priately.  ized paragraphs Regarding paragraphs,  However, there may  Connectors and/or 
one of these two hap- be one or more of  discourse markers are pens: these flaws: effectively used
a) The text has only one  Same paragraph 
or two paragraphs,  includes different 
without clear internal  unorganized ideas 
and external coherence  Same idea in two para- 
b) The text has many  graphs when it could 
very short paragraphs,  be in one
which makes it dif-  The paragraph where 
ficult to follow the  the argument is 
argument line developed is too long; 
it could be divided
Connector/text markers 
are misused


The affective cost ofmiscalibr ation: Effects ofdisc overing… Page 17 of 17  67
Text components:  Sentences are too long  Most sentences are of Sentences, vocabulary,  (over 40 words) or too  adequate length, with 
and punctuation short. Excessive use of  a few too long or short text insertions within  or incomplete
sentences. Punctuation  Punctuation is correct, 
is incorrect (e.g., lack  although there may be of commas, the break  a few mistakes
the sentence) The vocabulary is 
Too many colloquial  adequate, but different 
expressions terms are used to refer Abuse of passive or  to the central concept 
impersonal tenses of the text
Some colloquial expres-
sion may appear
The sentences are well 
constructed, usually 
following a simple 
structure, in an active 
language and a coherent 
use of the verbs Punctuation is correct The vocabulary is 
adequate, and the main 
terms are used with 
precision


The affective cost ofmiscalibr ation: Effects ofdisc overing… Page 17 of 22  67
Appendix B
Self-efficacy Questionnaire.
Writing of academic texts self-efficacy questionnaire
Express how capable or competent you feel about the following statements, using the scale shown below:
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
Very strongly Strongly Rather Indifferent Rather agree Strongly agree Very strongly agree disagree disagree disagree
1st Occasion 2nd Occasion 3rd Occasion
I usually feel capable to write academic texts
When I write an academic text I know what steps to follow
                                                                         1st Occasion     2nd Occasion      3rd Occasion
I can write different types of texts following specific com-
municative purposes
When I write an academic text, I am able to apply the princi-
ples of coherence and cohesion between paragraphs
I am able to write clear texts, considering elements such as 
the length of the sentences and the vocabulary used
Normally, I am able to quote and make the list of references 
following APA standards
I am able to self-assess my own tasks
I am able to self-assess my own academic texts
Appendix C See Table1


The affective cost ofmiscalibr ation: Effects ofdisc overing… Page 21 of 22  67
Table 1  Descriptive statistics for scores of positive and negative emotions, and self-efficacy
 
                         Pre-assessment       Before feed- back After feed- back
M SD                 M SD              M SD
Positive Emotions        4.92 1.64            5.18 1.70         5.86 1.9
Negative Emotions        3.32 1.37            3.05 1.33         2.63 1.2
Self-efficacy            3.94 0.73            3.95 0.84         4.07 1.0
 


The affective cost ofmiscalibr ation: Effects ofdisc overing… Page 21 of 22  67
N=112
Authors’ contributions Leire Pinedo: conceptualization, data curation, formal analysis, investigation, vis- ualization, writing – original draft, and writing- review & editing. Ernesto Panadero: conceptualization, funding acquisition, investigation, methodology, project administration, supervision, and writing- review & editing. Javier Fernández-Ruiz: data curation, methodology, resources, and data collection. Daniel García- Pérez: data curation, investigation, methodology, and data collection. Gavin T. L. Brown: data curation, formal analysis, supervision, and writing- review & editing.
Funding Open Access funding provided thanks to the CRUE-CSIC agreement with Springer Nature. (1) Spanish Ministry of Universities (Ministerio de Universidades) National FPU Call (Formación de Profeso- rado Universitario), personal grant, reference: FPU19/04661. (2) Spanish Ministry of Economy and Com- petitiveness (Ministerio de Economía y Competitividad) National I + D Call (Convocatoria Excelencia) project reference EDU2016-79714-P. (3) Spanish National R + D call from the Ministerio de Ciencia, Inno- vación y Universidades (Generación del conocimiento 2020), Reference number: PID2024-156609NB-I00. 
(4) Basque Government Call for Grants to support the activities of research groups of the Basque University System (2022–2025) project reference: IT1624-22.
Availability of data and material The data and materials from this study are not publicly available.
Declarations 
Ethics approval and consent to participate This research has been approved by the ethics committee from Comité de ética de la investigación, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid. Reference: CEI-84–1557. PI: Ernesto Panadero. Consent for publication The authors listed in the by-line have agreed to the order of authorship and consent to the publication of the manuscript upon acceptance.
Competing interests The authors declare to not having any conflict of interest regarding this manuscript.
Open Access  This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Com- mons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
References
Andrade, H. L. (2019). A critical review of research on student self-assessment. Frontiers in Education, 4, 
Article 87. https://doi.org/10.3389/feduc.2019.00087
Bandura, A. (1997). Self-Efficacy: The Exercise of Control. Freeman.
Bernacki, M. L., Nokes-Malach, T. J., & Aleven, V. (2015). Examining self-efficacy during learning: Vari-
ability and relations to behavior, performance, and learning. Metacognition and Learning, 10, 99–117. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11409-014-9127-x
Boud, D., & Falchikov, N. (1989). Quantitative studies of student self-assessment in higher education: A 
critical analysis of findings. Higher Education, 18(5), 529–549. https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00138746 Bourke, R. (2017). Self-assessment to incite learning in higher education: Developing ontological aware-
ness. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2017.1411881 Britner, S. L., & Pajares, F. (2006). Sources of science self-efficacy beliefs of middle school students. Jour-
nal of Research in Science Teaching, 43(5), 485–499. https://doi.org/10.1002/tea.20131
Brown, G. T. L., & Harris, L. R. (2013). Student self-assessment. In J. H. McMillan (Ed.), The SAGE hand-
book of research on classroom assessment (pp. 367–393). Sage.
Brown, G. T. L., & Harris, L. R. (2014). The future of self-assessment in classroom practice: Reframing self-
assessment as a core competency. Frontline Learning Research, 3, 22–30. https://doi.org/10.14786/flr.v2i1.24 Brown, G., Andrade, H., & Chen, F. (2015). Accuracy in student self-assessment: Directions and cautions for research. Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy & Practice, 22(4), 444–457. https://doi.org/ 10.1080/0969594x.2014.996523
Brown, G. T., Peterson, E. R., & Yao, E. S. (2016). Student conceptions of feedback: Impact on self‐regula-
tion, self‐efficacy, and academic achievement. British Journal of Educational Psychology, 86(4), 606– 629. https://doi.org/10.1111/bjep.12126
Brown, G. T. L., Harris, L. R., O’Quin, C., & Lane, K. E. (2017). Using multi-group confirmatory factor analysis 
to evaluate cross-cultural research: Identifying and understanding non-invariance. International Journal of Research & Method in Education, 40(1), 66–90. https://doi.org/10.1080/1743727X.2015.1070823
Butler, R. (2011). Are positive illusions about academic competence always adaptive, under all circum-
stances: New results and future directions. International Journal of Educational Research, 50(4), 251– 256. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijer.2011.08.006
Cheung, G. W., & Rensvold, R. B. (2002). Evaluating goodness-of-fit indexes for testing measurement invariance. 
Structural Equation Modeling, 9(2), 233–255. https://doi.org/10.1207/S15328007SEM0902_5
Costello, A. B., & Osborne, J. W. (2005). Best practices in exploratory factor analysis: Four recommenda-
tions for getting the most from your analysis. Practical Assessment Research & Evaluation, 10(7). https://doi.org/10.7275/jyj1-4868
Curran, P. J., & Bollen, K. A. (2001). The best of both worlds: Combining autoregressive and latent curve models. 
In L. M. Collins & A. G. Sayer (Eds.), New methods for the analysis of change (pp. 107–135). APA.
Dunning, D., Heath, C., & Suls, J. M. (2004). Flawed self-assessment: Implications for health, education, 
and  the  workplace.  Psychological  Science  in  the  Public  Interest,  5(3),  69–106.  https://doi.org/10. 
1111/j.1529-1006.2004.00018.x
Falchikov, N., & Boud, D. (1989). Student self-assessment in higher education: A meta-analysis. Review of 
Educational Research, 59(4), 395–430. https://doi.org/10.3102/00346543059004395
Fan, X., & Sivo, S. A. (2007). Sensitivity of fit indices to model misspecification and model types. Multi-
variate Behavioral Research, 42(3), 509–529. https://doi.org/10.1080/00273170701382864
Goetz, T., Lipnevich, A. A., Krannich, M., Gogol, K. (2018). Performance feedback and emotions. In Lipnevich 
A. A. & Smith, J. K. (Eds.) Cambridge Handbook of Instructional Feedback. Cambridge University Press.
Honicke, T., Broadbent, J., & Fuller-Tyszkiewicz, M. (2023). The self-efficacy and academic performance recipro-
cal relationship: The influence of task difficulty and baseline achievement on learner trajectory. Higher Edu-
cation Research & Development, 42(8), 1936–1953. https://doi.org/10.1080/07294360.2023.2197194
Jonsson, A., & Panadero, E. (2018). Facilitating students’ active engagement with feedback. The Cambridge 
Handbook of Instructional Feedback, 10(2), 531–553. https://doi.org/10.1017/9781316832134.026
León, S. P., Panadero, E., & García-Martínez, I. (2023). How accurate are our students? A meta-analytic 
systematic review on self-assessment scoring accuracy. Educational Psychology Review, 35(4), 106. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10648-023-09819-0
Lim, L. A., Dawson, S., Gašević, D., Joksimović, S., Pardo, A., Fudge, A., & Gentili, S. (2021). Students’ 
perceptions of, and emotional responses to, personalised learning analytics-based feedback: An explor- atory study of four courses. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 46(3), 339–359. https:// doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2020.1782831
Lipnevich, A. A., & Smith, J. K. (2009). I really need feedback to learn: ” Students’ perspectives on the effec-
tiveness of the differential feedback messages. Educational Assessment, Evaluation and Accountability, 21, 347–367. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11092-009-9082-2
Little, T. D., Rhemtulla, M., Gibson, K., & Schoemann, A. M. (2013). Why the items versus parcels contro- versy needn’t be one. Psychological Methods, 18(3), 285–300. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0033266
Lui, A. M., & Andrade, H. L. (2022). Inside the next black box: Examining students’ responses to teacher feedback in a formative assessment context. Frontiers in Education, 7, Article 751549. https://doi.org/ 10.3389/feduc.2022.751549
Panadero, E., Brown, G. T. L., & Courtney, M. G. (2014). Teachers’ reasons for using self-assessment: A 
survey self-report of Spanish teachers. Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy & Practice, 21(4), 365–383. https://doi.org/10.1080/0969594X.2014.919247
Panadero, E., Brown, G. T. L., & Strijbos, J. W. (2016a). the future of student self-assessment: A review of 
known Unknowns and potential directions. Educational Psychology Review, 28(4), 803–830. https:// doi.org/10.1007/s10648-015-9350-2
Panadero, E., Jonsson, A., & Strijbos, J. W. (2016b). Scaffolding self-regulated learning through self-assess-
ment and peer assessment: Guidelines for classroom implementation. In D. Laveault & L. Allal (Eds.), Assessment for Learning: Meeting the challenge of implementation (pp. 311–326). Springer.
Panadero, E., Jonsson, A., & Botella, J. (2017). Effects of self-assessment on self-regulated learning and 
self-efficacy: Four meta-analyses. Educational Research Review, 22, 74–98. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. edurev.2017.08.004
Panadero, E., Pérez, D. G., Fernández-Ruiz, J., Fraile Ruiz, J., Sánchez-Iglesias, I., & Brown, G. T. L. 
(2022).  University  students’  strategies  and  criteria  during  self-assessment:  Instructor’s  feedback, rubrics, and year level effects. European Journal of Psychology of Education, 38, 1031–1051. https:// doi.org/10.1007/s10212-022-00639-4
Panadero, E., Fernández, J., Pinedo, L., Sánchez, I., & García-Pérez, D. (2024). A self-feedback model 
(SEFEMO): secondary and higher education students’ self-assessment profiles. Assessment in Educa- tion: Principles, Policy & Practice, 1–33. https://doi.org/10.1080/0969594X.2024.2367027
Pekrun, R., Goetz, T., Titz, W., & Perry, R. P. (2002). Academic emotions in students’ self-regulated learn-
ing and achievement: A program of qualitative and quantitative research. Educational Psychologist, 37(2), 91–105. https://doi.org/10.1207/S15326985EP3702_4
Pekrun, R., Goetz, T., Frenzel, A. C., Barchfeld, P., & Perry, R. P. (2011). Measuring emotions in students’ 
learning and performance: The Achievement Emotions Questionnaire (AEQ). Contemporary Educa- tional Psychology, 36(1), 36–48. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cedpsych.2010.10.002
Pekrun, R., Lichtenfeld, S., Marsh, H. W., Murayama, K., & Goetz, T. (2017). Achievement emotions and aca-
demic performance: Longitudinal models of reciprocal effects. Child development, 88(5), 1653–1670.
Pekrun, R., Marsh, H. W., Elliot, A. J., Stockinger, K., Perry, R. P., Vogl, E., Goetz, T., van Tilburg, W. A. 
P., Lüdtke, O., & Vispoel, W. P. (2023a). A three-dimensional taxonomy of achievement emotions. 
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 124(1), 145–178. https://doi.org/10.1037/pspp0000448 Pekrun, R., Marsh, H. W., Suessenbach, F., Frenzel, A. C., & Goetz, T. (2023b). School grades and students’ 
emotions: Longitudinal models of within-person reciprocal effects. Learning and Instruction, 83, Arti-
cle 101626. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2022.101626
Peterson, E. R., Brown, G. T., & Jun, M. C. (2015). Achievement emotions in higher education: A diary 
study exploring emotions across an assessment event. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 42, 82–96. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cedpsych.2015.05.002
Pinedo, L., Panadero, E., Fernández-Ruiz, J., & Rodríguez-Hernández, C. (2023). Students’ experiences in self-
assessment: training, processes and feedback use in secondary and higher education. Assessment in Educa-
tion: Principles, Policy & Practice, 30(5–6), 448–480. https://doi.org/10.1080/0969594X.2023.2284630
Pinedo, L., Panadero, E., Fernández-Ruiz, J., & García-Pérez, D. (2025). Beyond the accuracy gap in self-
assessment: exploring reasons for (in)accuracy and the role of individual differences. Assessment in Edu-
cation: Principles, Policy & Practice, 32(4), 462–484. https://doi.org/10.1080/0969594X.2025.2565384 Pitt, E., & Norton, L. (2017). ‘Now that’s the feedback I want! ’Students’ reactions to feedback on 
graded work and what they do with it. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 42(4), 499–
516. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2016.1142500
Richardson, M., Bond, R., & Abraham, C. (2012). Psychological correlates of university students’ aca-
demic performance: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Psychological Bulletin 138(2), 353– 387. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0026838
Sanchez, C. E., Atkinson, K. M., Koenka, A. C., Moshontz, H., & Cooper, H. (2017). Self-grading and peer-grad-
ing for formative and summative assessments in 3rd through 12th grade classrooms: A meta-analysis. Jour- nal of Educational Psychology, 109(8), 1049. https://doi.org/10.1037/edu0000190
Schraw, G. (2009). A conceptual analysis of five measures of metacognitive monitoring. Metacognition and 
Learning, 4(1), 33–45. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11409-008-9031-3
Schreiber, J. B., Nora, A., Stage, F. K., Barlow, E. A., & King, J. (2006). Reporting Structural equation 
modeling and confirmatory factor analysis results: A Review. The Journal of Educational Research, 99(6), 323–338. https://doi.org/10.3200/JOER.99.6.323-338
Shao, K., Pekrun, R., Marsh, H. W., & Loderer, K. (2020). Control-value appraisals, achievement emo-
tions, and foreign language performance: A latent interaction analysis. Learning and Instruction, 69, Article 101356. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2020.101356
Tai, J., Ajjawi, R., Boud, D., Dawson, P., & Panadero, E. (2018). Developing evaluative judgement: Ena-
bling students to make decisions about the quality of work. Higher Education, 76, 467–481. https:// doi.org/10.1007/s10734-017-0220-3
Talsma, K., Schüz, B., Schwarzer, R., & Norris, K. (2018). I believe, therefore I achieve (and vice versa): 
A meta-analytic cross-lagged panel analysis of self-efficacy and academic performance. Learning and Individual Differences, 61, 136–150. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lindif.2017.11.015
Tan, K. H. (2008). Qualitatively different ways of experiencing student self-assessment. Higher Educa-
tion Research & Development, 27(1), 15–29. https://doi.org/10.1080/07294360701658708
Usher, E. L., & Pajares, F. (2008). Sources of self-efficacy in school: Critical review of the literature and future 
directions. Review of Educational Research, 78(4), 751–796. https://doi.org/10.3102/0034654308321456
Villafane, S. M., Xu, X., & Raker, J. R. (2016). Self-efficacy and academic performance in first-semester 
organic chemistry: Testing a model of reciprocal causation. Chemistry Education Research and 
Practice, 17(4), 973–984. https://doi.org/10.1039/C6RP00119J
Yan, Z. (2020). Self-assessment in the process of self-regulated learning and its relationship with aca-
demic achievement. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 45(2), 224–238. https://doi. org/10.1080/02602938.2019.1629390
Yan, Z., & Brown, G. T. L. (2017). A cyclical self-assessment process: Towards a model of how stu-
dents engage in self-assessment. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 42(8), 1247–1262. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2016.1260091
Yan, Z., & Carless, D. (2021). Self-assessment is about more than self: The enabling role of feedback 
literacy. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 47(7), 1116–1128. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 02602938.2021.2001431
Yan, Z., Lao, H., Panadero, E., Fernandez-Castilla, B., Yang, L., & Yang, M. (2022). Effects of self- 
assessment and peer-assessment interventions on academic performance: A meta-analysis. Educa-
tional Research Review, 37, Article 100484. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.edurev.2022.100484
Zimmerman, B. J. (2008). Investigating self-regulation and motivation: Historical background, meth-
odological developments, and future prospects. American Educational Research Journal, 45(1), 
166–183. https://doi.org/10.3102/0002831207312909
Publisher’s Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
“Current themes of research” and “most relevant publications” in the field of psychology of education. Leire Pinedo.
Current themes of research: Educational assessment (self-assessment, and teacher’s feedback). Rubrics. Self-regulation.Psychology of assessment.
Most relevant publications in the field of Psychology of Education:
Pinedo, L., Panadero, E., Fernández-Ruiz, J., & García-Pérez, D. (2025). Beyond the Accuracy Gap 
in Self-assessment: Exploring Reasons for (In)Accuracy and the Role of Individual Differences. Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy & Practice, 32(4), 462–484. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 0969594X.2025.2565384
Pinedo, L., Panadero, E., Fernández-Ruiz, J., Rodríguez-Hernández, C. (2023). Students’ 
experiences in self-assessment: training, processes and feedback use in secondary andhigher education.Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy & Practice, 30:5-6, 448-480, https://doi. org/10.1080/0969594X.2023.2284630.
Ernesto Panadero.Current themes of research: Self-regulated learning. Formative assessment (self- assessment, peer assessment, and teacher’s feedback). Rubrics. Socially shared regulated learning.Most relevant publications in the field of Psychology of Education:
Panadero, E. (2023). Toward a paradigm shift in feedback research: Five further steps influenced by 
self-regulated learning theory. Educational Psychologist, 58(3), 193-204. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 00461520.2023.2223642
Panadero, E., Brown, G. T., & Strijbos, J. W. (2016). The future of student self-assessment: A review of 
known unknowns and potential directions. Educational Psychology Review, 28(4), 803–830. Javier Fernández-Ruiz.
Current themes of research: Higher education. Formative assessment. Teacher education. Assessment design.
Most relevant publications in the field of Psychology of Education:
Fernández-Ruiz, J., Panadero, E., & García-Pérez, D. (2021). Assessment from a disciplinary approach: 
Design and implementation in three undergraduate programmes. Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy & Practice, 28(5–6), 703–723.
Fernández Ruiz, J., Panadero, E., García-Pérez, D., & Pinedo, L. (2021). Assessment design 
decisions in practice: Profile identification in approaches to assessment design. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 1–16.
Daniel García-Pérez.Current themes of research: Educational research. Democratic education. 
Assessment. Learning strategies.
Most relevant publications in the field of Psychology of Education:
García-Pérez, D., Fraile, J., & Panadero, E. (2021). Learning strategies and self-regulation in context: 
How higher education students approach different courses, assessments, and challenges. European Journal of Psychology of Education, 36(2), 533–550.
Panadero, E., García-Pérez, D., Fernández Ruiz, J., Fraile, J., Sánchez-Iglesias, I., & Brown, G. T. L. 
(2023). Feedback and year level effects on university students’ self-efficacy and emotions during self-assessment: positive impact of rubrics vs. instructor feedback. Educational Psychology, 43(7), 756–779. https://doi.org/10.1080/01443410.2023.2254015
Gavin T.L.Brown.
Current themes of research: Educational assessment. Psychology of assessment. Psychometrics. Most relevant publications in the field of Psychology of Education:
Brown, G. T. (2004). Teachers’ conceptions of assessment: Implications for policy and professional 
development. Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy & Practice, 11(3), 301–318.
Brown, G. T. L., & Harris, L. R. (2013). Student self-assessment. In J. McMillan (Ed.), The SAGE 
handbook of research on classroom assessment (pp. 367–393). SAGE.
Authors and Affiliations
LeirePinedo1  · ErnestoPanadero1,2,3  · JavierFernández‑Ruiz4  · DanielGarcía‑Pérez5  · GavinT.L.Brown6 
*  Leire Pinedo 
leire.pinedo@opendeusto.es
1	 Education, Regulated Learning andAssessment Group (ERLA Group), Faculty ofEducation andSport, ERLA Research Group, Universidad de Deusto, Avda. Universidades 24, 48007Bilbao, Spain
2	 Centre forAssessment Research Policy andPractice inEducation (CARPE), School ofPolicy andPractice, Institute ofEducation, St. Patrick’s Campus, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland
3	 IKERBASQUE, Basque Foundation forScience, Bilbao, Spain
4	 Departamento de Psicología Evolutiva y de La Educación, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain
5	 Departamento de Investigación y Psicología en Educación, Facultad de Educación-Centro de Formación del Profesorado, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid, Spain
6	 Faculty ofArts & Education, The University ofAuckland, Auckland, NewZealand

