606

British Journal of Educational Psychology (2016), 86, 606–629
© 2016 The British Psychological Society

www.wileyonlinelibrary.com

Student conceptions of feedback: Impact on
self-regulation, self-efficacy, and academic
achievement

Gavin T. L. Brown*, Elizabeth R. Peterson and Esther S. Yao
The University of Auckland, New Zealand

Background. Lecturers give feedback on assessed work in the hope that students will
take it on board and use it to help regulate their learning for the next assessment.
However, little is known about how students’ conceptions of feedback relate to students’
self-regulated learning and self-efficacy beliefs and academic performance.

Aims. This study explores student beliefs about the role and purpose of feedback and
the relationship of those beliefs to self-reported self-regulation and self-efficacy, and
achievement.

Sample. A total of 278 university students in a general education course on learning
theory and approaches in a research-intensive university.

Methods. Self-reported survey responses for students’ conceptions of feedback
(SCoF), self-regulation (SRL), academic self-efficacy (ASE), and Grade Point Average
(GPA) were evaluated first with confirmatory factor analysis and then interlinked in a
structural equation model.

Results and conclusions. Three SCoF factors predicted SRL and/or GPA. The SCoF
factor ‘I use feedback’ had positive associations with SRL (b = .44), GPA (b = .45), and
ASE (b = .15). The SCoF factors ‘tutor/marker comments’ and ‘peers help’ both had
negative relations to GPA (b = .41 and .16, respectively). ‘Peers help’ had a positive
connection to SRL (b = .21). ASE itself made a small contribution to overall GPA
(b = .16), while SRL had no statistically significant relation to GPA. The model indicates
the centrality of believing that feedback exists to guide next steps in learning and thus
contributes to SRL, ASE, and increased GPA.

To date self-regulation of learning research has focused mostly on the studying and
learning processes, while devoting much less attention to the adaptive and maladaptive
responses and attitudes students might have towards assessment and external feedback.
Hence, while it might be expected that self-regulating students make active use of the
insights available about their learning from assessment and feedback, this is not a well-
attested assumption.

Teachers, tutors, and instructors generate external feedback (e.g., grades, scores,
comments) in the hope, oftentimes vain, that students will use feedback in an adaptive
way to improve their future performance. Despite this core assumption, little is known
about how student conceptions of feedback (SCoF) interact with self-reported

*Correspondence should be addressed to Gavin T. L. Brown, Faculty of Education& SocialWork, School of Learning Development
and Professional Practice, The University of Auckland, Private Bag 92019, Auckland 1142, New Zealand (email: gt.
brown@auckland.ac.nz).

DOI:10.1111/bjep.12126



University students’ conceptions of feedback 607

metacognitive learning strategies, self-reported academic self-efficacy (ASE), and overall
academic performance. That is, what the student learns from feedback may not be
relevant and hence may not lead to the adoption of regulatory strategies that will raise
subsequent achievement. A study that seeks to identify potentially adaptive beliefs about
feedback and how these relate to self-regulation is therefore needed.

Among studies of self-regulation, it would seem only Panadero et al. (Panadero,
Alonso-Tapia, & Huertas, 2014; Panadero, Alonso-Tapia, & Reche, 2013) have examined
the impact of feedback derived from rubrics, scripts, and exemplars upon performance,
self-efficacy, and self-regulation. They reported that feedback had no meaningful impact
on self-regulation and only process-oriented feedback (as opposed to performance-
oriented) increased self-efficacy. They did not, however, investigate students’ concep-
tions of feedback and the association of those perceptions with self-regulation. Some
research has been carried out linking conceptions of assessment to self-regulation. A
variety of studies (summarized in Brown, 2011) have shown that students who endorsed
the conceptions that assessment is for improvement exhibited adaptive self-regulatory
responses (e.g., greater achievement, greater effort in test-taking, and greater attendance
at a voluntary test day)while studentswho viewed assessment as something to be ignored
had maladaptive responses.

Self-regulation
Formal schooling involves a sequential process in which instruction of content takes
place, students study and learn the material, and formal assessments (e.g., tests) are
conducted to establish learning success and needs, or to certify student proficiency. The
formal evaluative event generates feedback about the quality and success of learning
(Evaluation Process in Figure 1). However, this linear schooling process interacts with
interactive and cyclical processes students use as they learn and study. Zimmerman’s
(2008) model of self-regulation of learning involves a cycle of planning, monitoring, and
reflection around learning and studying (box at top of Figure 1). Feedback arises through
multiple mechanisms including internal processes (i.e., physical and psychological
responses) (Butler & Winne, 1995) and external assessment appraisals. Feedback within
Zimmerman’s model occurs in a reflective process which can take place during the
preparatory study, the assessment process itself, and upon completion of the assessment
process. Consequently, self-regulation of learning weaves itself around the complete
studying, assessment, and follow-up stages of schooling.

Feedback based on assessed performance contributes to ASE and the self-regulation
processes, and ultimately future learning and achievement. While this general cycle of
learning is portrayed in a linear fashion in Figure 1, these processes are interactive and
reciprocal such that ASE and self-regulation processes both arise from and contribute to
academic performance. Nonetheless, given the chronological sequencing of school
processes, linear flows are all that can be observed.

Feedback
Feedback is ‘information given by an agent . . . regarding aspects of one’s performance or
understanding’ (Hattie & Timperley, 2007, p. 102). While feedback can be internally self-
generated, it is commonly externally generated by the teacher or other people (Butler &
Winne, 1995). Four levels of feedback have been identified to do with task, process, self-
regulation, and self (Hattie & Timperley, 2007). Task, process, and self-regulation

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



608 Gavin T. L. Brown et al.

Figure 1. Schematic relationships of self-regulated learning, evaluation, and academic self-efficacy.
Constructs used in this study shown in shaded ellipses.

feedback all contribute to gains in learning outcomes, while self-oriented or ego-
enhancing/protecting feedback generally does not (Boekaerts & Corno, 2005; Hattie &
Timperley, 2007).

Feedback can also be formative or summative depending on its timing within a course
of study, with the former happening early enough to allow improvement, while the latter
happens at the end of study and involves an evaluation of performance. In its most
summative form, feedback is restricted to evaluativemarks, grades, or scores at the end of
study. Such feedback, even if provided formatively earlier in a course, has been found not
to be as effective as descriptive feedback commentaries that identify strengths and
weaknesses, diagnose problems, and recommend strategies for improvement (Smith &
Lipnevich, 2009).

Higher education assessment is rarely just summative (i.e., 100% final examination).
Coursework completed prior to or instead of a terminal examination is both summative
(i.e., counts towards the final grade) and formative (i.e., indicates quality of performance
and potentially diagnoses strengths and weaknesses with recommendations for future
actions). Hence, feedback from assessments early in a course can be both evaluative and
descriptive while having formative potential.

Feedback, self-regulation, self-efficacy, and achievement
As illustrated by Figure 1, effective feedback results in students implementing learning
strategies that contribute to greater learning (Nicol & Macfarlane-Dick, 2006). Students
who act on feedback are considered self-regulating because they take responsibility for
their learning processes by reflecting on the quality of their work, and make adjustments
to their learning in the light of feedback (Zimmerman, 2008). However, while feedback

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



University students’ conceptions of feedback 609

may generate learning effects, these may not be automatically translated into better
performance on future assessments. Future assessments generally align with course goals
rather the student’s personal goals, meaning that what the student learns from feedback
may not be relevant for a future assessment (Bourke, 2014). Further, feedback from
performance on one assessment (e.g., multiple choice test) may not be useful for
performance on another type of assessment (e.g., essay). Hence, the relationship of
feedback from a specific task to overall academic performance may not be very strong.
Nonetheless, it is expected that a self-regulating response to feedback should result in
greater outcomes overall.

Taking time to engagewith the feedback and self-regulate subsequent learning is likely
to be associatedwith a sense of ASE. That is, after receiving feedback, studentswho do not
believe they have capability to achieve on the next assessment would be unlikely to
engage in self-regulation, further reducing future performance; unsurprisingly, greater
self-regulation is expectedwhen feedback confirms successful learning. Butler andWinne
(1995) proposed that learners integrate external feedback with their own internal
perceptions and feelings about the quality of their work to generate a response that ought
to lead to better performance. Feedback from successful performance on assessments is
likely to contribute to a student’s sense of self-efficacy and greater self-efficacy reciprocally
leads to greater performance (Bandura, 1986, 1997).

Greater ASE is also positively related to effective self-regulated learning (SRL) processes
(Pintrich & Zusho, 2007; Richardson, Abraham, & Peterson, 2012; Robbins et al., 2004).
Thus, ASE and SRL are related to competence and control beliefs (Schunk & Zimmerman,
2006) that contribute to greater achievement andwhich probably depend, in part, on the
quality of feedback. Thus, if feedback ismeant to improve performance, raise self-efficacy,
and trigger self-regulatory processes, it matters how students perceive it.

Conceptions of feedback
Students’ conceptions of feedback and its purposes matter because the provision of
formative feedback does not guarantee that learners believe that the feedback can help
them implement appropriate learning strategies and achieve better outcomes (Hattie,
1999). Instead, it is likely that beliefs about ASE and self-regulation and previous
performance interact with how students interpret and use feedback (Bandura, 1986;
Hattie & Timperley, 2007). For example, after experiencing positive feedback, students
with high and low self-efficacy might differ in their response to negative feedback on a
later assessment; high self-efficacy students may cope better, while low self-efficacy
students might seek to avoid critical but constructive feedback (Hattie & Timperley,
2007).

While not directly investigating student conceptions, it has been found that higher
achieving students actively used tutor feedback to facilitate self-regulatory tasks, although
theywere not dependent on external sources of feedback,while lower achieving students
engaged in little self-regulation, being regulated externally by the feedback they received
(Orsmond &Merry, 2012). In a similar vein, among high school students in New Zealand,
the belief that that assessment guided students as to the next things they had to learn
predicted greater achievement (Brown, Peterson, & Irving, 2009). These suggest that
there may be adaptive andmaladaptive ways of thinking about what feedback is andwhat
it is for.

Differing perceptions of feedback have also been identified between the giver of and
receiver of feedback (Carless, 2006; MacLellan, 2001). Tutors and staff perceived their

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



610 Gavin T. L. Brown et al.

feedback as giving detail and being useful, while students perceived it as being much less
so. Further, there is evidence that students believed feedback was general, vague,
negative, or unrelated to assessment criteria (Weaver, 2006). Thus, although assessment
feedback should contribute to improved learning outcomes and increased self-regulation,
its effectiveness appears to depend on students’ conceptions.

Conceptions of feedback inventory
A series of studies with New Zealand secondary school students (Grades 9–10, ages 13–
14) developed the SCoF inventory concerning beliefs about the nature and purpose of
feedback (Irving, Peterson, & Brown, 2007, 2008). New Zealand secondary schooling has
no high-stakes external certification assessment until Grade 11 (nominally age 15) and a
strong policy of formative, school-based assessment, which relies predominantly on
teacher observation and interaction rather than formal testing, intended to provide
feedback to learners concerning their progress and needs (Crooks, 2010). In these
circumstances, it has been found that students strongly endorse the idea that feedback
leads to better learning outcomes (Harris, Brown, & Harnett, 2014).

Seven intercorrelated factors, six of which deemed adaptive to achievement, were
found; adaptive factors included: (1) parental feedback helps (e.g., my parents provide
constructive feedback about my learning), (2) feedback is enjoyable (e.g., I enjoy getting
feedback), (3) feedback tells me howwell I have done relative to standards (e.g., I know I
have done well when the result is better than last time), (4) teacher feedback helps (e.g.,
teachers give me trustworthy and honest feedback), (5) feedback motivates (e.g.,
feedback makes me try harder), and (6) peer feedback helps (e.g., feedback from my
classmates really helps me). The one maladaptive factor was feedback is ignored (e.g., I
ignore bad comments/grades).

A study with younger students (55% in primary school) found just three factors: (1)
feedback is ignored or negative, (2) feedback is from peers, and (3) feedback is teacher
comments (Harris et al., 2014). The students gave most agreement to teacher comments
about improvement. This factor had a positive but weak correlation with drawings of
feedback that contained teachers giving feedback. Simultaneously, all three feedback
factors were negatively correlated with drawings of feedback that showed student-led
feedback, suggesting that peer and self-generated feedback were distinguished from
teacher-based feedback.

However, the applicability of the SCoF inventory to university age students is
uncertain. The majority of the SCoF factors found in secondary school students seem
broadly relevant to the university setting; hence, it is likely university student responses
will recover some of the SCoF factors. That is, the university assessment systems typically
require (1) descriptive commentary from tutors or professors on assessed student work,
(2) grading relative to assessment criteria or standards, (3) students to interact with each
other in group work or peer interaction around formal criteria and standards, and (4)
students to improve their performance over time.

The SCoF factor that seemsmost likely to differ in a tertiary sample is parental feedback
which may work differently for adults in non-compulsory higher education than for
adolescents and children in compulsory schooling. While becoming independent is a key
developmental task for university-aged students (Arnett, 2000; Erikson, 1968), parents
may still be involved in higher education students’ lives, partly through their financial
dependence on parents, the ease of communicating, and contemporary emphases on
active parenting (NSSE, 2007; Wartman & Savage, 2008). Awareness of parental

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



University students’ conceptions of feedback 611

expectations for academic achievement certainly characterizes Asian higher education
students (Brown & Wang, 2013), especially those on international student visas being
subsidized by their families (Lee, Farruggia, & Brown, 2013). There may be an optimal
level of parental support, because excessive parental involvement is correlated with
lower achievement (Harper, Sax, & Wolf, 2012; NSSE, 2007).

The goal of the current studywas to gain insights into university students’ conceptions
of feedback and to explore how those conceptions related to self-regulation and self-
efficacy beliefs and how they mutually contributed to academic performance.

Research questions
Given that previous studies among school-age students with the SCoF inventory have not
returned stable factorial structures, and that this studywas among university age students,
the first goal of the studywas to identify awell-fitting factorial structure. Second, although
the reciprocal relationship of SRL and ASE has been studied (Hodges & Kim, 2010), less is
known about how SCoF relate to those beliefs and achievement. It is plausible that
students who actively seek out and make use of feedback to identify their learning needs,
and use this information to guide their subsequent learning behaviour, will have greater
ASE, SRL, and overall academic performance. However, without a true longitudinal
design, a cross-sectional snapshot cannot capture this cyclical and reciprocal process.
Hence, multiple models are needed to establish where in the process the data lie. As seen
in Figure 1, the shaded areas represent the constructs available in this study (i.e.,
academic score, ASE, SRL, and conceptions of feedback).

To test possible causal pathways, a systematic testing of plausible sources of
influence upon all other constructs was carried out (Table 1). An assumption is made
that students have had previous experience with educational study, feedback, and
assessment and that such experiences are the origin of their self-rated evaluations of
feedback, SRL, and ASE. This assumption is necessary because the survey was
administered at the start of the course and students would not have had experience
with the course itself. To establish where in the cycle the data have been collected, six
logically plausible models were tested.

However, although Models M1–M4 are causal in design, fit of such models to the data
does not constitute proof of causation; rather they only suggest causal relations that
require testing under proper experimental and/or longitudinal conditions. Thus, the
current study first establishes a measurement model for the SCoF inventory and then
examines structural relations among the three constructs and academic achievement.
Differences in fit were used to identify the most appropriate model for the data.

Method
Participants
The participants were enrolled in an undergraduate General Education course at a large
(N  42,000), publically funded, research-intensive, and selective university. The
participants in the current study were undertaking a General Education course. General
Education courses are elective, introductory-level courses designed for students from
outside the faculty offering the course. All students are required to take two such courses
for their degree. Data were collected in a General Education course on how people learn.
Students completed the questionnaire in the first week as a required ungraded

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



612 Gavin T. L. Brown et al.

Table 1. Models tested

Model Description Rationale

M1 SCoF factors predict Conceptions of feedback are
ASE, SRL, and GPA the source of responses

to all other constructs
M2 SRL factor predicts Self-regulation of learning

ASE, GPA, and SCoF is source of all other
constructs

M3 GPA score predicts Overall academic ability
ASE, SCoF, and SRL is the source of self-beliefs

M4 ASE factor predicts ASE is the source of
SCoF, SRL, and GPA all other constructs

M5 No paths between Null hypothesis that
constructs there are no causal or

correlational relationships
among constructs

M6 All constructs are Counterfactual model that
intercorrelated there all relations are

intercorrelations not causal

Note. ASE = academic self-efficacy; GPA = Grade Point Average; SCoF = Student Conceptions of
Feedback; SRL = self-regulated learning.

coursework activity. Individual results for each scale were emailed to students, and class
results were discussed in a lecture after the mid-term test.

Of the 362 enrolled students, 300 (83%) gave permission for their questionnaire data to
be used, while 278 gave permission to access their Grade Point Average (GPA) (response
rate = 76%). Hence, SCoF analyses used 300 students, while structural relations used 278.
While a ratio of 10:1 cases to manifest variables is generally recommended in analytic
studies, a number of considerations can modify this standard (Bandalos & Finney, 2010;
Costello & Osborne, 2005; Marsh, Hau, Balla, & Grayson, 1998). For example, if (1) there
are enough items per factor (p/f) relative to the sample size (i.e., ≥3 when n = 200), (2)
each item has strong loadings on its own factor (i.e., k > .40), and (3) items have weak
(i.e.,k ≤ .30) loadings on other factors, then successful estimation can be achieved. These
recommendations suggest that the sample size is sufficient in this study because the ratio
of cases to items was 6.18, only one item had a loading under .40, and only one factor had
fewer than three items.

The majority of participants (Table 2) were female. The mean age was 20.49
(SD = 4.12), and the mean years of completed tertiary study was 2.60 (SD = 1.33). The
majority were studying towards a Bachelor of Science, a Bachelor of Commerce, or a
Bachelor of Arts. In terms of ethnicity, most participants were either white or Asian.

Instruments

Student conceptions of feedback inventory
The 32-item Student Conceptions of Feedback Questionnaire-II (SCoF-II; Irving &
Peterson, 2006)was adapted for the tertiary context (e.g., ‘teacher’was changed to ‘tutor’
and/or ‘marker’). Participants rated how much they agreed or disagreed with the items

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



University students’ conceptions of feedback 613

Table 2. Participant demographics (n = 278)

Demographic n (%)

Sex
Male 97 (34.9)
Female 181 (65.1)

Years of completed tertiary study
0 63 (22.7)
1 86 (30.9)
2 64 (23.0)
3 42 (15.1)
4 11 (4.0)
5+ 12 (4.3)

Degree
Bachelor of Science 116 (41.7)
Bachelor of Commerce 55 (19.8)
Bachelor of Arts 47 (16.9)
Bachelor of Engineering 3 (1.1)
LLB 3 (1.1)
Conjoint 22 (7.9)
Other 32 (11.5)

Ethnicity
White 110 (39.6)
Asian 130 (46.8)
Confucian heritage culture (e.g., Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Taiwanese) 63 (22.7)
Other (e.g., Bangladeshi, Filipino, Indian, Sri Lankan, Thai) 67 (24.1)

Minority immigrant group 20 (7.2)
Minority indigenous 3 (1.1)
Middle Eastern 2 (0.7)
Other 13 (4.7)

using a 6-point, positively packed rating scale (Lam & Klockars, 1982) with two negative
options (strongly disagree andmostly disagree) and four positive options (slightly agree,
moderately agree,mostly agree, and strongly agree). Because most students were likely
to agreewith all the conceptions of feedback, positive-packing generates greater variance
in the positive space (Brown, 2004). This scale has been effectively used with higher
education students in Hong Kongwith robust psychometric properties (Deneen, Brown,
Shroff, & Bond, 2013).

Term grade point average
Participants’ general academic performance was taken from the current term’s GPA. This
was the participants’ average grade achieved over all courses in the same semester of the
survey. GPA is considered a good predictor of academic performance (Kuncel, Crede, &
Thomas, 2005; Robbins et al., 2004). GPA ranged from0 (all fail) to 9 (A+ average) and had
a stronger correlation with the course final grade than mid-term test (r = .77 vs. r = .69,
respectively). This approachwas takenbecause the surveywas administered at the start of
the course,meaning that conceptions had to have been developedon amore general basis
than could be attributed to the content of this specific course. Furthermore, subsequent
analyses of the proposed models found that using the final course score out of 100 as

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



614 Gavin T. L. Brown et al.

dependent variable instead of the term GPA produced much worse fit (i.e., DAIC values
were greater by 120–300 points).

Self-regulated learning
The Metacognitive Self-Regulation subscale from the Motivated Strategies for Learning
Questionnaire (MLSQ) was used (Pintrich, Smith, Garcia, & McKeachie, 1991). The
subscale was chosen as it focuses on the control of cognition around three key self-
regulatory learning strategies shown in Figure 1 (i.e., planning, monitoring, and
regulating/reflecting). Planning involves setting goals and analysing the task. This helps
activate prior knowledge that will assist with task understanding and comprehension
(e.g., before I study new course material thoroughly, I often skim it to see how it is
organized). Monitoring strategies help integrate study material with prior knowledge to
further understanding. This is performed through the regulation of attention, self-testing,
and questioning (e.g., if course materials are difficult to understand, I change the way I
read the material). Regulating strategies involve continual checking and correcting of
behaviours while studying to improve learning (e.g., I ask myself questions to make sure I
understand the material I have been studying in class). The Metacognitive Self-Regulation
subscale has 12 items, two of which (i.e., SRLQ 1 and 8) were reverse-scored. The items
were rated with a 6-point, balanced agreement scale (1 = strongly disagree, 2 = dis-
agree, 3 = slightly disagree, 4 = slightly agree, 5 = agree, and 6 = strongly agree). The
items were modified so that students were asked to consider how they would regulate
their learning for ‘this course’ instead of all courses. This was performed deliberately, as
part of the curricular goals of the course, to give students a basis for comparing their
espoused strategies with their actual learning strategies. This was performed in tutorial
sessions after the mid-term test in which students were given their self-reported scale
scores and asked to consider whether they ought to change any of their behaviours or
approaches.

We were unable to include the other cognitive subscales in the MLSQ (i.e.,
rehearsal, elaboration, organization, and critical thinking) due to concerns about
participant fatigue. Given that the other cognitive subscales are moderately to strongly
correlated with the broader metacognitive self-regulation subscale (range r = .58–.73;
Pintrich et al., 1991), it seems that by selecting the metacognitive scale, we would at
least capture some aspects of these more specific cognitive scales. We did not include
the MLSQ Resource Management Strategies scales because our study was primarily
focused on how cognitive conceptions of feedback relate to other cognitive beliefs
and achievement outcomes, rather than the influence of more contextual factors such
as the study environments.

Academic self-efficacy inventory
The5-itemAcademic Efficacy (ASE) subscale from thePatterns of Adaptive Learning Scales
(Midgley et al., 2000) was used. ASE has been used effectively in studies with university
students (Elliot, Murayama, & Pekrun, 2011). The items were modified to focus
participants’ perceptions of their competence to complete work specific to their
academicmajor (e.g., I’m certain I can figure out how to do themost difficult classwork in
my major). The items were rated using a 5-point, ordinal, truthfulness rating scale
(1 = not at all true, 2 = slightly true, 3 = moderately true, 4 = mostly true, and
5 = very true).

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



University students’ conceptions of feedback 615

Data analysis
Missing values analysis, using the expectation-maximizationprocedure,was conducted to
calculate missing values for participants with <10% missing data.

SCoF measurement model
Because the previously developed measurement model for the SCoF had not been well
attested to, exploratory approaches were used. The number of dimensions was
determined using Velicer’s Minimum Average Partial Test (MAP2) and Comparison Data
using Spearman correlations (Courtney, 2013). Exploratory factor analysis using
maximum likelihood estimation and oblique minimization rotation (Costello & Osborne,
2005) was used to examine dimensionality. Items with low-loading (k < .30) and high
cross-loading (k > .30) items were removed (Bandalos & Finney, 2010). The exploratory
solution was validated with confirmatory factor analysis using AMOS (IBM, 2011),
although this is better construed as restrictive factor analysis (Anderson &Gerbing, 1988)
as no new data were available to test the solution.

ASE and SRL measurement models
These two scales were tested directly with confirmatory factor analysis (IBM, 2011) to
establish the validity of the factors for these participants. Special attention was paid to
negatively worded items, because such items do not automatically conform to
intended factors even after reverse-scoring (Brown, 2004; DiStefano & Motl, 2006).
Likewise, items with loadings k < .30 or with statistically non-significant weights were
removed.

Structural relations among constructs
Structural equation modelling (IBM, 2011) was used to investigate the relationships
among constructs. The fivemodels specified abovewere tested, and the best fittingmodel
was selected. Once identified, the model was trimmed by removing statistically non-
significant regression paths and items not exhibiting simple structure.

Model fit standards
Multiplemeasures of fit (i.e., v2,v2/df, Comparative Fit Index [CFI], gammahat; rootmean
squared error of approximation [RMSEA], and standardized root mean squared residual
[SRMR])were inspected (Fan&Sivo, 2005;Hu&Bentler, 1999). Thev2 perdf ratio, SRMR,
and gamma hat indices are considered robust against sample size, model complexity, and
model misspecification (Fan & Sivo, 2007; Marsh, Hau, &Wen, 2004). Models with v2 per
df < 3.80, CFI and gamma hat > .90, RMSEA < .08 and SRMR < .08 were interpreted as
having acceptable fit; while those with v2 per df < 3.00, CFI and gamma hat > .95,
RMSEA < .05 and SRMR < .06 were considered as having good fit.

Selection between models can rest on statistically significant differences in fit.
Difference in the Akaike information criterion (DAIC>2.00) and proportion of AIC
weight (wi > .95) indicate superior fit (Burnham & Anderson, 2004). The z-
standardized difference in chi-square between models minus the z-standardized
difference in df also indicates a non-equivalent model when p < .05 (Wilson &
Hilferty, 1931).

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



616 Gavin T. L. Brown et al.

Results
SCoF measurement model
Exploratory analysis identified between five and six dimensions. The only difference
between the five- and six-factor solutions was a two-item factor (I enjoy feedback) which
separated from Factor 1 (I learn from Feedback) in the six-factor solution. The solution
with six factors fit considerably better than the five-factor solution (DAIC = 49.36).
Consequently, that Enjoyment factorwas treated as a subordinate factor of Factor 1, rather
than as a separate factor. The revised SCoF (five intercorrelated factorswith a subfactor for
Factor 1) had sufficient fit to be used (v2 = 793.45; df = 313; v2/df = 2.54, p = .11;
CFI = .91; gamma hat = .91; RMSEA = .065; SRMR = .070). Note, evaluation of the SCoF
model comparing responses between the 278 versus 22 who did not have GPA showed
that the differences in chi-square for the difference in df for the measurement weights
(p = .022) and intercepts (p = .96) varied within chance, supporting the conclusion that
using the larger sample size for the SCoF analysis produced invariant responses to those
given by the participants in the structural model.

Thefive intercorrelated factorswere labelled: (1) I activelyuse feedbackwhichcontained
the subfactor I enjoy feedback, (2) peer feedback helps, (3) I ignore feedback, (4) feedback
tells me if I am meeting or exceeding expectations, and (5) tutor/marker comments are
helpful and clear feedback. Table 3 provides the scale and item statistics. Most positively
evaluated were feedback tells me I am meeting or exceeding expected standards, active
seeking and using of feedback, and trusting tutor/marker comments. Ignoring feedbackwas
rejected, while feedback from peers was moderately endorsed. Intercorrelations among the
factors were weak to moderate, except between active use and tutor/marker comments
(r = .78), perhaps due in part because of two items within active use that refer to a tutor or
markers (i.e., cofq13 and cofq7). This overlap suggests that students who actively used
feedback especially relied on tutor/marker commentaries because it was clear, formative,
and dependable. The ignore factorwas inversely correlatedwith all other factors andmostly
strongly negative to the active use and tutor/marker comments factors, indicating internal
coherence in how students perceived feedback.

SRL and ASE measurement models
Because of the conceptual linking between ASE and SRL, a correlated two-factor model
was proposed. After removing two reversed-scored SRL items (i.e., SRLQ 1 and 8) with
poor loading, and SRLQ9 with low loading, the two-factor correlated model (r = .33) had
nine SRL and five ASE items. The fit to the data was acceptable (v2 = 297.49, df = 76; v2/
df = 3.91, p = .048; CFI = .81; gamma hat = .90; RMSEA = .103; SRMR = .075). Only
two of the SRL items had loadings <.50, while all the items for the ASE had loadings >.60
and the scale reliability estimateswere sufficiently large (a ≥ .80) towarrant further use of
the scales (Table 4).

Structural model among constructs
Each of the specified models was tested without deletion of non-significant paths and
without cross-construct paths. Table 5 provides the model fit indices and comparative fit
results. Model M1 originating from the SCoF factors was best fitting to the data, although
this was only marginally better than the fully intercorrelated model (Model M6). It may be
thatM1 fits better because it hasmore between-construct paths (i.e., three paths per SCoF

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



University students’ conceptions of feedback 617

Table 3. Conceptions of feedback factors, items, and scale descriptive statistics

Code CoFB factor and item k

Active use of feedback (M = 4.57,
SD = 0.96, a = .92)

cofq32 I actively use feedback to help me improve .88
cofq13 I make active use of feedback from my .85

tutors and/or markers
cofq7 I pay attention to feedback frommy tutors .83

and/or markers
cofq9 I use feedback to set goals/targets for the .80

next assessment
cofq28 I look at feedback to see what I did wrong .79
cofq18 Feedback makes me try harder .79
cofq23 Feedback changes the way I learn and .66

study
Enjoyment subfactor (M = 4.58, .81
SD = 1.10, a = .78)

cofq11 I look forward to feedback from the .84
markers

cofq3 I enjoy getting feedback .76
Peers help (M = 3.73, SD = 0.95,a = .89)

cofq20 Feedback from my classmates helps my .89
learning

cofq30 Feedback from my classmates really helps .84
me

cofq17 Imake active use of the feedback I get from .85
classmates

cofq12 I can trust feedback from my peers .71
cofq22 I learn better when my friends comment .71

on my works
cofq5 I look forward to getting feedback from .62

peers
Ignore (M = 1.93, SD = 0.75, a = .77)

cofq31 I ignore comments the markers make .67
about my work

cofq19 I ignore bad grades or comments .65
cofq25 Feedback is not necessary as I know how .65

well I’m doing
cofq6 Feedback does not tell me anything new .61
cofq2 Feedback on my work doesn’t tell me .57

anything useful
Meet expectations (M = 4.67, SD = 0.88,
a = .62)

cofq27 I know I have done well if the result is .75
better than last time

cofq26 Doing better than my parents expect is .61
doing well

cofq16 Doing better than the expected or .52
required standard is a good result

cofq4 .32

Continued

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



618 Gavin T. L. Brown et al.

Table 3. (Continued)

Code CoFB factor and item k

Good grades will help me get the job I
want

Tutor/marker comments (M = 4.33,
SD = 0.90, a = .74)

cofq21 Feedback from my markers makes it clear .77
how to improve

cofq29 Tutors and/or markers give me .75
trustworthy and honest feedback

cofq8 Markers of my work give me clear .59
feedback

Interfactor correlations

CoFB factors II III IV V

I. Active use of feedback .50 .65 .39 .78
II. Peers help – .20 .27 .50
III. Ignore – .16 .46
IV. Meet expectations – .46
V. Tutor/marker comments –

Note. Loading values are standardized weights.

factor to SRL, ASE, and GPA) thanModels M2–M4, inclusive. Nonetheless, Model 1 did not
meet conventions for acceptable fit and necessitated further trimming.

All statistically non-significant paths were removed. Then, two items in the SRL factor
(i.e., SRLQ10 and SRLQ5) were removed for havingmultiple modification indices to SCoF
items or factors. The trimmed SCoF Source Model 1 (Figure 2) had acceptable fit, with a
number of indices suggesting good fit (see last row of Table 5).

The model shown in Figure 2 indicates that the self-regulatory conception of feedback
factor (i.e., I actively use feedback) had a positive and substantial contribution to both SRL
and overall academic achievement and a small contribution to ASE. Two other SCoF factors
(Peers Help and Tutor Marker Comments) had a negative contribution to GPA suggesting
reliance on external sources of feedback reduced overall academic performance. Nonethe-
less, the Peers Help SCoF factor had a small positive contribution to SRL, suggesting that
active interaction with peers contributed to clarifying confusing and difficult materials and
developing new ways of learning. As expected, there was a small positive correlation
between SRL and ASE, but only ASE had a small but positive contribution to GPA, suggesting
that self-efficacy rather than self-regulation of learningwas related to overall achievement. It
is worth remembering that the analytic framework used here does not prove causality,
especially since the intercorrelated model fit nearly equally as well.

Discussion
SCoF measurement model
This study partially replicated the previously reported factor structure of the SCoF. The
substantial structural difference is the absence of the factor concerningparental feedback.
This difference seems plausible given the relative independence of university students

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



University students’ conceptions of feedback 619

Figure 2. Schematicmodel of structural relations among self-regulated learning, academic self-efficacy, and
conceptions of feedback to term Grade Point Average (GPA). Standardized regression weights shown.
Note. Values are standardized b weights; negative values in dashed lines; SMC = squared multiple
correlate or R2; SCoFB intercorrelation values removed for simplicity.

vis-a-vis their families and that nearly four-fifths of the sample had already completed one
or more years of higher education. Feedback from parents, with their relatively weak
understanding of the discipline knowledge students acquire at university, might not be
very useful. A second clear difference is the subordination of enjoyment to the self-
regulatory Use Feedback factor instead of its previous status as a stand-alone factor. It
seems that enjoyment of feedback that guides and improves study behaviours is a positive
thing (Pekrun, Elliot, & Maier, 2006).

Another difference has to do with the somewhat weaker endorsement of feedback
as coming from peers relative to mostly primary age students (d = .36) (Harris et al.,
2014) but almost identical to secondary students (d = .05) (Irving et al., 2008). The
weaker value for older school and university students seems consistent with the greater
anonymity and independence students experience in secondary and higher education.
Without knowing one’s classmates personally or knowing how competent they might
be, it may be difficult to believe valuable feedback could come from them. It is also
interesting that the Peers Help factor is quite different in make-up to the Tutor/Marker
Comments factor. The latter only focuses on the quality of the feedback (i.e., clarity,
formative, and dependable), while the Peers Help factor contains notions of help,
active use, enjoyment, and trustworthiness. Interestingly, in contrast to the Peers Help
Factor, the active use of feedback from my tutors and/or markers comments is
embedded within the Active Use of Feedback factor and not the Tutor/Marker
Comments factor, whereas the active use of feedback from peers remains in the Peers
help factor. It may be that, as argued by New Zealand secondary students (Harris &
Brown, 2013; Peterson & Irving, 2008), feedback from teachers is reliable because the
teacher knows what quality looks like within the material being learned and hence it is
actively used, while peer feedback is less authoritative and may be based on social

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



620 Gavin T. L. Brown et al.

Table 4. Self-regulated learning (SRL) and academic self-efficacy (ASE) item loadings and scale
descriptive statistics

Factor and item Item loading

SRL (M = 4.16, SD = 0.68; a = .80)
SRLQ11. When I study for this class, I set goals for .66
myself in order to direct my activities in each study period

SRLQ12. If I get confused taking notes .64
in class, I make sure I sort it out afterwards

SRLQ10a. When studying for this course .57
I try to determine which concepts I don’t understand well

SRLQ6. I ask myself questions to make sure .56
I understand the material I have been studying in this class

SRLQ7. I try to change the way I study in order .54
to fit the course requirements and instructor’s teaching style

SRLQ3. When I become confused about something I’m reading for this class, .53
I go back and try to figure it out

SRLQ2. When reading for this course, I make up questions to help focus my reading .50
SRLQ4. If course materials are difficult to understand, .47
I change the way I read the material

SRLQ5a. Before I study new course material thoroughly, .44
I change the way I read the material

ASE (M = 3.78, SD = 0.74, a = .84)
ASEQ5. I’m certain I can master the skills taught .75
in my major this year

ASEQ7. I can do even the hardest work in .75
my classes for my major if I try

ASEQ1. I’m certain I can figure out how to do the .74
most difficult class work in my major

ASEQ13. Even if the work for my major is hard, I can learn it .71
ASEQ8. I can do almost all the work in class for .62
my major if I don’t give up

Note. aItem removed in final structural model; loading values are standardized b weights.

attraction or animosity. The separation of active use from tutors, but not active use
from peers, seems to reinforce the expert role that teachers have in providing
dependable and authoritative feedback, relative to the possibly well intentioned but
relatively novice capacity of peers.

Themean scores indicated a strong commitment to using feedback to identify learning
needs and to guide efforts to address those weaknesses so as to meet or exceed
expectations. These results are indicative of a self-regulating response to information
generated by evaluations and assessments.

SCoF as a predictor of structural relations
The supposition of this study was that conceptions of feedback would be consistent with
self-regulation of learning, and this study has confirmed that claim. The core SCoF factor
that related to SRL, ASE, and GPA was the construct Use Feedback. The core distinction
between SRL and this SCoF factor seems to bemore one of timing (using feedback after an

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



University students’ conceptions of feedback 621

Table 5. Model fit indices

Fit indices Difference tests

Model v2 df v2/df CFI c RMSEA SRMR AIC AIC wi Sum of wi v
2 zdiff p (zdiff)

1. FB source 1509.386 792 1.906 0.865 0.891 0.057 0.070 1731.39 0.7337 0.7337
6. Intercorrelated 1509.427 791 1.908 0.862 0.891 0.057 0.071 1733.43 0.2646 0.9982 0.29 .39
2. SRL source 1541.428 802 1.922 0.861 0.886 0.058 0.072 1743.43 0.0018 1.0000 3.64 <.001
3. GPA source 1601.362 801 1.999 0.849 0.879 0.060 0.121 1805.36 0.0000 1.0000 9.49 <.001
4. ASE Source 1612.981 802 2.011 0.847 0.879 0.060 0.111 1814.98 0.0000 1.0000 10.08 <.001
5. No paths 1650.171 809 2.040 0.842 0.875 0.061 0.125 1838.17 0.0000 1.0000 11.06 <.001
Model 1 trimmed 1323.688 722 1.833 0.881 0.902 0.055 0.068 1519.69

Note. ASE = academic self-efficacy; CFI = comparative fit index; GPA = Grade Point Average; RMSEA = root mean square error of approximation;
SRMR = standardized root mean residual; SRL = self-regulated learning; AIC = Akaike information criterion; wi = proportion of AIC weight; zdiff = z score for
difference in v2 minus difference in df; na = not estimable.

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



622 Gavin T. L. Brown et al.

assessment or using feedback during studying) than concept, as both factors point to
actions taken to improve learning and understanding. Thus, there is a strong conceptual
alignment between SRL and SCoF Use Feedback. The model shows that students who
report actively taking up feedback, both in general and from markers/tutors, also report
taking up self-regulated approaches to studying and have high self-reported ASE. A key
contributor to greater academic performance seems to lie in believing that feedback
should be used to inform and guide next steps in learning. It is also adaptive to
achievement that students actively use external feedback to diagnose and guide
improvements, and this is seen in the positive relationships to both GPA and SRL.

Wehave chosen to represent the relationships among these constructs as one inwhich
conceptions of feedback cause increases in ASE, SRL, and GPA. However, the literature
reviewed earlier shows that ASE, SRL, and GPA have cyclical intercorrelated relationships
that are inherently multidirectional and interactive over time. Thus, the apparent causal
nature of those paths, despite fitting better than a correlated model, is simply a plausible
but tentative hypothesis of how feedback influences self-regulation, self-efficacy, and
academic performance. Thismodel has possible advantages over an intercorrelatedmodel
in that it generates testable claims within longitudinal and/or experimental designs.

However, there was no direct path from SRL to GPA, suggesting that conventional
planning and monitoring processes did not discriminate between higher and lower
achievers. This result is consistent with the large meta-analysis of correlates of
achievement among university students which showed ASE rather than metacognition
predicted GPA (Richardson et al., 2012).

The lack of relationship between SRL and GPA may also be related to the different
formats of university assessment (e.g.,multiple choice test vs. essays) or because feedback
in the current course, being a general education topic, does not transfer to courses in the
student’s home faculty or discipline. It may also be that students do not believe that they
are personally capable of changing in response to feedback; that is, because they hold a
belief that ability or intelligence is innate and fixed, feedback is not used (Mangels,
Butterfield, Lamb, Good, &Dweck, 2006). This may contribute to the positive correlation
between ASE and SRL.

The lack of direct path from SRL to GPA also highlights the possibility that it is the
active attention and use of externally received feedback to identify mistakes and guide
learning that is important for raising GPA, rather than the more internally self-driven
feedback (self-regulation) that monitors how well studying is going. Perhaps this is also
because individuals are worse at attending to or judging their own learning gaps and that
attending to and using the feedback from the tutors or markers is more relevant to
subsequent performance. Two items in the Use of Feedback factor reflect this: ‘I make
active use of feedback from my tutors and/or markers’ and ‘I pay attention to feedback
from my tutors and/or markers’.

However, this interpretation of using tutor and marker feedback to improve future
performance, at first seems at oddswith the finding that trusting teacher or tutor feedback
and receiving clear tutor or marker feedback is associated with weaker overall academic
performance. Perhaps this is because those who trust such feedback and think it is clear,
interrogate the feedback less than those who think the feedback is not right or is unclear.
Consequently, trusting feedback results in less attention to it and a more surface-like
processing of its content; accordingly, the student’s subsequent performance is not
improved by feedback because deeper cognitive engagement does not arise. This
interpretation to some extent parallels Kapur’s (2008) research on productive failure
which found that exposing students to ill-structured problems followed by well-

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



University students’ conceptions of feedback 623

structured problems ultimately led to better learning outcomes compared to those were
only exposed to well structured problems. Kapur (2016) argued that productive failure
(i.e., not being able to easily generate a correct solution) can prepare students for more
learning gains in subsequent instruction.

We also found that peer feedback was negatively associated with GPA, but it did
contribute positively to SRL. It may be that academically weaker students were not able
to tell that the peers on whom they relied were not a good source of feedback. If peer
feedback is not high quality, then it will not effectively guide next learning steps; a
concern expressed frequently by school-age students in peer assessment (Peterson &
Irving, 2008). Additionally, as peers are not official markers of course-work, relying on
them rather than official tutor or lecturer marking could be maladaptive to performance,
especially more likely the more novice peers are. However, the positive association of
the ‘peers help’ SCoF factor to SRL suggests that feedback from classmates may be a
useful check on how their studying is going. But in the end, the successful student is
one who does not rely on peers for help, but instead relies on him or herself to use
feedback.

This study poses some challenges for ‘assessment for learning’ initiatives in higher
education that seek to involve students in more interactive, collaborative group work
(Strijbos, 2016). Such reforms are especially common-place in disciplines that seek to
mimicpost-graduation employment practices (e.g.,medicine, commerce, and science), in
whichmany students in this study have theirmajors. Studentsmaybelieve that such group
work is prone to many negative interpersonal processes (e.g., social loafing and/or free-
riding) which interfere with the validity of peer-based feedback (Strijbos, 2016). Thus,
advocates of assessment reform certainly have to deal with students’ prevailing belief
systems which seem to associate higher grades with those who do not depend on their
peers or tutors.

In the current study, the shared covariance of SRL and ASE allows a more accurate
identification that it is not the process of regulating one’s study, but rather one’s
active use of the feedback and one’s confidence that one can do the academic work
assigned that contributes directly to achievement. That is, only the Use Feedback SCoF
factor related to ASE, hence, it would seem that self-perceptions of academic ability
(ASE) are largely independent of how feedback is perceived and used. Nonetheless,
this path from seeking and using feedback to self-efficacy seems consistent with self-
regulation.

While it was expected that the SCoF factor of ignoring feedback (perhaps because the
content was negative or threatening to one’s self-esteem) would be a maladaptive
response to achievement, this was not the case. This factor had a zero relationship to SRL,
ASE, andGPA, suggesting thatwhile the temptation to ignore feedback exists, it clearly has
no systematic impact. Apparently, both high and low achievers seldom fall prey to
ignoring feedback and do so in relatively equal proportions. It may be that each ignores
different kinds or aspects of feedback and future studies that attempt to disentangle what
kinds of feedback are ignored and under what conditions and by which kinds of students
would be helpful.

Implications for practice
Clearly, the strong correlation between Use Feedback with Tutor/Marker Comments
(r = .78) (Table 3) indicates a positive connection between being given feedback by
instructors, lecturers, or tutors and using it. Seeking this feedback is part of being a self-

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



624 Gavin T. L. Brown et al.

regulating learner. However, the negative relationship of Tutor/Marker Comments to
achievement is challenging to the simplistic notion that if students perceive they receive
good feedback, they will benefit from it. It seems likely that the most effective learners in
this sample interrogate and internalize the feedback from external sources and process it
so as to inform and guide their own formative action. Nonetheless, this is a vexing
question for higher education; how do students get feedback that helps them improve, if
conceptions of clear and honest teacher- and peer-based feedback have a maladaptive
impact on performance?

A suggested practice worth considering involves tutors and markers not giving
feedback directly to students, but rather instead requiring that students generate their
own analysis and recommendations as to how their work could be improved early
enough in the coursework process that such deeper and engaged self-reflection
generates improvement (Hanstedt, 2015). Another suggestion is to avoid giving grades
or marks to early pieces of work, instead only providing descriptive formative feedback
commentary; although, if the institution requires grades, then providing compliments
and praise has been shown to mitigate negative effects associated with low grades
(Lipnevich & Smith, 2009a,b). A further possibility is the use of structured peer
assessment activities (e.g., PeerWise; https://peerwise.cs.auckland.ac.nz/) that require
students to answer and evaluate peer-written multiple choice questions. This process
requires deeper engagement with peer critique and may generate a positive
contribution to performance, transforming the current negative relationship of peer
feedback to performance. Additionally, students could be encouraged to engage deeply
with feedback, for example, by being required to comment on how they have used
previous marker feedback to make changes to their subsequent work. Nonetheless, the
key requirement is that feedback be descriptive, not only of the current state of
performance, but also prescriptive of appropriate courses of action for improvement
(Shute, 2008).

However, with relatively short semesters (approximately 12–15 weeks of instruc-
tion), the need to provide frequent and early grade indicators, and the importance of
grades to student graduation and life chances, there remain challenges for how high-
quality feedback can be generated and used in higher education. Feedback needs to
support effort and appropriate study strategies for the next assessment, which is
complicated as research has shown that there is high variability and diversity in higher
education assessment practices (Boud, Lawson, & Thompson, 2015). Given the
dissimilarity among higher education assessments, it is difficult to see how feedback
from one assessment might help a student knowwhat to do for the next assessment. Even
if the feedback is perceived as clear, valid, and motivating, it may not be relevant for the
next assessment task or may not warrant deep interrogation. Hence, this study suggests
higher education providers tell the truth to their learners, but also align their assessments
and feedback practices, so that feedback from one assessment can help students improve
for the next assessment.

Future research
A number of factors limit the generalizability of this study. As has been stated many times,
this study is a cross-sectional design and lacks a robust design capable of disentangling the
causal paths of such intercorrelated and reciprocal constructs. Future work with
experimental treatments (e.g., Panadero et al., 2013, 2014; Smith & Lipnevich, 2009)
would be beneficial. The study uses a relatively small sample size drawn from one course

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



University students’ conceptions of feedback 625

meaning that future studies should use larger samples from more diverse courses and
faculties so that the current results can be properly tested. The current study has used
various trimming processes to generate a statistically acceptable solution and, through
selection of only one of themanyMSLQ scales, has used just a fewof themany correlates of
achievement (Richardson et al., 2012). Thus, the study takes advantage of chance artefacts
in the data which need independent corroboration in a replication and extension study.

Indeed, some interpretations are entirely speculative, albeit plausible, and direct
testing of the explanations for some results is needed. Potentially, the use of different
reference points for three of the constructs could impact upon the validity of results,
perhaps in the same way that response scales with different lengths can distort
responses (Adelson & McCoach, 2010). For example, ASE was referenced against the
students’ major (e.g., I am certain I can master the skills taught in my major), SRL was
based on the students experience of the course to date (e.g., ‘when I study for this
class. . .’), and student GPA was based on course grades averages at the beginning of
the term, which for some students meant they were based on only one term of study.
Thus, future studies would do well to align the reference points so as to make
interpretations more coherent. Future research could also exercise control over
student beliefs by priming their thinking towards or away from self-regulation or by
randomly assigning students to conditions in which different styles of assessment and
feedback are implemented. Gaining insight into student motivations for specific
assessments, courses, and degrees might also shed light on these exploratory results.
As with much of educational psychology, the results here depend almost entirely on
self-reported data. Future studies that could use observable behaviours as proxies for
motivational and self-belief constructs would be highly desirable, though difficult.

Conclusion
Although it is not possible to prove the causal paths specified among the various
constructs, they are suggestive of causal mechanisms that are coherent with self-
regulation theory. Students who actively use feedback to guide their learning
practices increase in SRL and academic performance. Ensuring that students receive
feedback beyond grades and scores early enough to effectively guide subsequent
learning is necessary, as is students implementing such an approach to their
learning.

Acknowledgements
Ethics approval for research use of the data was granted by the university’s institutional review
board (reference #HPEC597). Preliminary data analyses were conducted by the third author,
under the supervision of the two other authors, with funding from the Faculty of Education
Summer Scholar Programme.

References
Adelson, J. L., & McCoach, D. B. (2010). Measuring the mathematical attitudes of elementary

students: The effects of a 4-point or 5-point Likert-type scale. Educational & Psychological
Measurement, 70, 796–807. doi:10.1177/0013164410366694

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



626 Gavin T. L. Brown et al.

Anderson, J. C., & Gerbing, D. W. (1988). Structural equation modeling in practice – a review and
recommended 2-step approach. Psychological Bulletin, 103, 411–423. doi:10.1037/0033-
2909.103.3.411

Arnett, J. J. (2000). Emerging adulthood: A theory of development from the late teens through the
twenties. American Psychologist, 55, 469–480. doi:10.1037/0003-066x.55.5.469

Bandalos, D. L., & Finney, S. J. (2010). Factor analysis: Exploratory and confirmatory. In G. R.
Hancock & R. O. Mueller (Eds.), The reviewer’s guide to quantitative methods in the social
sciences (pp. 93–114). New York, NY: Routledge.

Bandura, A. (1986). Social foundations of thought and action: A social cognitive theory.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

Bandura, A. (1997). Self-efficacy: The exercise of control. New York, NY: W. H. Freeman.
Boekaerts, M., &Corno, L. (2005). Self-regulation in the classroom: A perspective on assessment and

intervention. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 54, 199–231. doi:10.1111/j.1464-
0597.2005.00205.x

Boud, D., Lawson, R., & Thompson, D. G. (2015). The calibration of student judgement through self-
assessment: Disruptive effects of assessment patterns. Higher Education Research &
Development, 34(1), 45–59. doi:10.1080/07294360.2014.934328

Bourke, R. (2014). Self-assessment in professional programmes within tertiary institutions.
Teaching in Higher Education, 19(8), 908–918. doi:10.1080/13562517.2014.934353

Brown, G. T. L. (2004). Measuring attitudewith positively packed self-report ratings: Comparison of
agreement and frequency scales. Psychological Reports, 94, 1015–1024. doi:10.2466/
pr0.94.3.1015-1024

Brown, G. T. L. (2011). Self-regulation of assessment beliefs and attitudes: A review of the Students’
Conceptions of Assessment inventory. Educational Psychology, 31, 731–748. doi:10.1080/
01443410.2011.599836

Brown, G. T. L., Peterson, E. R., & Irving, S. E. (2009). Beliefs that make a difference:
Adaptive and maladaptive self-regulation in students’ conceptions of assessment. In D. M.
McInerney, G. T. L. Brown & G. A. D. Liem (Eds.), Student perspectives on assessment:
What students can tell us about assessment for learning (pp. 159–186). Charlotte, NC:
Information Age.

Brown, G., & Wang, Z. (2013). Illustrating assessment: How Hong Kong university students
conceive of the purposes of assessment. Studies in Higher Education, 38, 1037–1057.
doi:10.1080/03075079.2011.616955

Burnham, K. P., & Anderson, D. R. (2004). Multimodel inference: Understanding AIC and BIC in
model selection. Sociological Methods & Research, 33, 261–304. doi:10.1177/
0049124104268644

Butler, D. L., & Winne, P. H. (1995). Feedback and self-regulated learning: A theoretical synthesis.
Review of Educational Research, 65, 245–281. doi:10.3102/00346543065003245

Carless, D. (2006). Differing perceptions in the feedback process. Studies in Higher Education, 31,
219–233. doi:10.1080/03075070600572132

Costello, A. B., & Osborne, J. W. (2005). Best practices in exploratory factor analysis: Four
recommendations for getting the most from your analysis. Practical Assessment, Research &
Evaluation, 10. Retrieved from http://www.pareonline.net/pdf/v10n7.pdf

Courtney, M. G. R. (2013). Determining the number of factors to retain in EFA: Using the SPSS R-
Menu v2.0 to make more judicious estimations. Practical Assessment, Research & Evaluation,
18. Retrieved from http://pareonline.net/getvn.asp?v=18&n=18

Crooks, T. J. (2010). Classroom assessment in policy context (New Zealand). In B. McGraw, P.
Peterson & E. L. Baker (Eds.), The international encyclopedia of education (3rd ed., pp. 443–
448). Oxford, UK: Elsevier.

Deneen, C. C., Brown, G. T. L., Shroff, R. H., & Bond, T. G. (2013). Telling the difference: A first
evaluation of an outcome-based learning innovation in teacher education. Asia-Pacific Journal
of Teacher Education, 41, 441–456. doi:10.1080/1359866X.2013.787392

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



University students’ conceptions of feedback 627

DiStefano, C., & Motl, R. W. (2006). Further investigating method effects associated with negatively
worded items on self-report surveys. Structural Equation Modeling: A Multidisciplinary
Journal, 13, 440–464. doi:10.1207/s15328007sem1303_6

Elliot, A. J., Murayama, K., & Pekrun, R. (2011). A 3 9 2 achievement goal model. Journal of
Educational Psychology, 103, 632–648. doi:10.1037/a0023952

Erikson, E. H. (1968). Identity, youth, and crisis. New York, NY: Norton.
Fan, X., & Sivo, S. A. (2005). Sensitivity of fit indexes to misspecified structural or measurement

model components: Rationale of two-index strategy revisited. Structural Equation Modeling,
12(3), 343–367.

Fan, X., & Sivo, S. A. (2007). Sensitivity of fit indices to model misspecification and model types.
Multivariate Behavioral Research, 42, 509–529. doi:10.1080/00273170701382864

Hanstedt, P. (2015). Reconsidering ‘whole person’ education: What do we really want for our
students – and how do we get them there? Plenary address presented at the 7th Annual
Conference on Higher Education Pedagogy, Blacksburg, VA.

Harper, C. E., Sax, L. J., & Wolf, D. S. (2012). The role of parents in college students’ sociopolitical
awareness, academic, and social development. Journal of Student Affairs Research and
Practice, 49, 137–156. doi:10.1515/jsarp-2012-6147

Harris, L. R., & Brown, G. T. L. (2013). Opportunities and obstacles to consider when using
peer- and self-assessment to improve student learning: Case studies into teachers’
implementation. Teaching and Teacher Education, 36, 101–111. doi:10.1016/
j.tate.2013.07.008

Harris, L. R., Brown, G. T. L., & Harnett, J. A. (2014). Understanding classroom feedback
practices: A study of New Zealand student experiences, perceptions, and emotional
responses. Educational Assessment, Evaluation and Accountability, 26(2), 107–133.
doi:10.1007/s11092-013-9187-5

Hattie, J. A. (1999, June). Influences on student learning. Inaugural Professorial Address, University
of Auckland, New Zealand. Retrieved from http://web.auckland.ac.nz/uoa/fms/default/
education/staff/Prof.%20John%20Hattie/Documents/Presentations/influences/Influences_on_
student_learning.pdf

Hattie, J., & Timperley, H. (2007). The power of feedback. Review of Educational Research, 77(1),
81–112. doi:10.3102/003465430298487

Hodges, C. B., & Kim, C. (2010). Email, self-regulation, self-efficacy, and achievement in a college
online mathematics course. Journal of Educational Computing Research, 43, 207–223.
doi:10.2190/EC.43.2.d

Hu, L. T., & Bentler, P. M. (1999). Cutoff criteria for fit indexes in covariance structure analysis:
Conventional criteria versus new alternatives. Structural Equation Modeling: A
Multidisciplinary Journal, 6(1), 1–55. doi:10.1080/10705519909540118

IBM (2011). Amos [computer program] (Version 20, Build 817). Meadville, PA: Amos
Development Corporation.

Irving, S. E., & Peterson, E. R. (2006). Conceptions of feedback (CoF) inventory (Version 2).
Auckland, New Zealand: University of Auckland.

Irving, S. E., Peterson, E. R., & Brown, G. T. L. (2007, August). Student conceptions of
feedback: A study of New Zealand secondary students. Paper presented at the Biennial
Conference of the European Association for Research in Learning and Instruction,
Budapest, Hungary.

Irving, S. E., Peterson, E. R., & Brown, G. T. L. (2008, July). Feedback and academic
achievement: The relationship between students’ conceptions of feedback and
achievement. Paper presented at the 6th Biennial Conference of the International Test
Commission, Liverpool, UK.

Kapur, M. (2008). Productive failure. Cognition and Instruction, 26, 379–424. doi:10.1080/
07370000802212669

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



628 Gavin T. L. Brown et al.

Kapur, M. (2016). Examining productive failure, productive success, unproductive failure, and
unproductive success in learning. Educational Psychologist, 51, 289–299. doi:10.1080/
00461520.2016.1155457

Kuncel, N. R., Crede, M., & Thomas, L. L. (2005). The validity of self-reported grade point averages,
class ranks, and test scores: A meta-analysis and review of the literature. Review of Educational
Research, 75(1), 63–82. doi:10.3102/00346543075001063

Lam, T. C. M., & Klockars, A. J. (1982). Anchor point effects on the equivalence of questionnaire
items. Journal of Educational Measurement, 19, 317–322. doi:10.2307/1435004

Lee, B., Farruggia, S., & Brown, G. (2013). Academic difficulties encountered by East Asian
international university students in New Zealand.Higher Education Research &Development,
32, 915–931. doi:10.1080/07294360.2013.806444

Lipnevich, A. A., & Smith, J. K. (2009a). The effects of differential feedback on student examination
performance. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied, 15, 319–333. doi:10.1037/
a0017841

Lipnevich, A. A., & Smith, J. K. (2009b). “I really need feedback to learn”: Students’ perspectives on
the effectiveness of the differential feedback messages. Educational Assessment, Evaluation
and Accountability, 21, 347–367. doi:10.1007/s11092-009-9082-2

MacLellan, E. (2001). Assessment for learning: The differing perceptions of tutors and students.
Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 26, 307–318. doi:10.1080/
02602930120063466

Mangels, J. A., Butterfield, B., Lamb, J., Good, C., & Dweck, C. S. (2006). Why do beliefs about
intelligence influence learning success? A social cognitive neurosciencemodel. Social Cognitive
and Affective Neuroscience, 1, 75–86. doi:10.1093/scan/nsl013

Marsh, H. W., Hau, K.-T., Balla, J. R., & Grayson, D. (1998). Is more ever too much? The number of
indicators per factor in confirmatory factor analysis. Multivariate Behavioral Research, 33,
181–220. doi:10.1207/s15327906mbr3302_1

Marsh, H. W., Hau, K.-T., & Wen, Z. (2004). In search of golden rules: Comment on hypothesis-
testing approaches to setting cutoff values for fit indexes and dangers in overgeneralizingHu and
Bentler’s (1999) findings. Structural Equation Modeling: A Multidisciplinary Journal, 11,
320–341. doi:10.1207/s15328007sem1103_2

Midgley, C., Maehr, M. L., Hruda, L. Z., Anderman, E., Anderman, L., Freeman, K. E., . . . Urdan, T.
(2000). Manual for the patterns of adaptive learning scales. Ann Arbor, MI: University of
Michigan.

Nicol,D. J., &Macfarlane-Dick, D. (2006). Formative assessment and self-regulated learning: Amodel
and seven principles of good feedback practice. Studies in Higher Education, 31, 199–218.
doi:10.1080/03075070600572090

NSSE (2007).Experiences thatmatter: Enhancing student learningand success. National Survey of
Student Engagement. Retrieved from http://nsse.iub.edu/NSSE%5F2007%5FAnnual%
5FReport/docs/withhold/NSSE_2007_Annual_Report.pdf

Orsmond, P., & Merry, S. (2012). The importance of self-assessment in students’ use of tutors’
feedback: A qualitative study of high and non-high achieving biology undergraduates.
Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 38(6), 737–753. doi:10.1080/
02602938.2012.697868

Panadero, E., Alonso-Tapia, J., & Huertas, J.-A. (2014). Rubrics vs. self-assessment scripts: Effects on
first year university students’ self-regulation and performance. Infancia y Aprendizaje, 37(1),
149–163. doi:10.1080/02103702.2014.881655

Panadero, E., Alonso-Tapia, J., & Reche, E. (2013). Rubrics vs. self-assessment scripts effect on self-
regulation, performance and self-efficacy in pre-service teachers. Studies in Educational
Evaluation, 39, 125–132. doi:10.1016/j.stueduc.2013.04.001

Pekrun, R., Elliot, A. J., & Maier, M. A. (2006). Achievement goals and discrete achievement
emotions: A theoretical model and prospective test. Journal of Educational Psychology, 98,
583–597. doi:10.1037/0022-0663.98.3.583

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License



University students’ conceptions of feedback 629

Peterson, E. R., & Irving, S. E. (2008). Secondary school students’ conceptions of assessment and
feedback. Learning and Instruction, 18, 238–250. doi:10.1016/j.learninstruc.2007.05.001

Pintrich, P. R., Smith, D., Garcia, T., & McKeachie, W. J. (1991). A manual for the use of the
Motivated Strategies for Learning Questionnaire (MSLQ). Ann Arbor, MI: The University of
Michigan.

Pintrich, P. R., & Zusho, A. (2007). Student motivation and self-regulated learning in the college
classroom. In R. P. Perry& J. C. Smart (Eds.), The scholarship of teaching and learning in higher
education: An evidence-based perspective (pp. 731–810). Dordrecht, The Netherlands:
Springer.

Richardson, M., Abraham, C., & Peterson, R. (2012). Psychological correlates of university students’
academic performance: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Psychological Bulletin, 138,
353–387. doi:10.1037/a0026838

Robbins, S. B., Lauver, K., Le, H., Davis, D., Langley, R., & Carlstrom, A. (2004). Do psychosocial and
study skill factors predict college outcomes? A meta-analysis. Psychological Bulletin, 130, 261–
288. doi:10.1037/0033-2909.130.2.261

Schunk, D. H., & Zimmerman, B. J. (2006). Competence and control beliefs: Distinguishing the
means and ends. In P. A. Alexander & P. H.Winne (Eds.),Handbook of educational psychology
(2nd ed., pp. 349–367). Mahwah, NJ: LEA.

Shute, V. J. (2008). Focus on formative feedback.Reviewof Educational Research, 78(1), 153–189.
doi:10.3102/0034654307313795

Smith, J. K., & Lipnevich, A. A. (2009). Formative assessment in higher education: Frequency and
consequence. InD.M.McInerney, G. T. L. Brown&G. A.D. Liem (Eds.), Student perspectives on
assessment:What students can tell us about assessment for learning (pp. 279–295). Charlotte,
NC: Information Age.

Strijbos, J. W. (2016). Assessment of collaborative learning. In G. T. L. Brown & L. R. Harris (Eds.),
Handbook of human and social conditions in assessment (pp. 302–318). New York, NY:
Routledge.

Wartman, K. L., & Savage, M. (2008). Parental involvement in higher education: Understanding the
relationship among students, parents, and the institution. ASHE Higher Education Report, 33
(6), 1–125. doi:10.1002/aehe.3306

Weaver, M. R. (2006). Do students value feedback? Student perceptions of tutors’ written
responses. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 31, 379–394. doi:10.1080/
02602930500353061

Wilson, E. B., & Hilferty, M. M. (1931). The distributions of chi-square. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences of the USA, 17, 684–688.

Zimmerman, B. J. (2008). Investigating self-regulation and motivation: Historical background,
methodological developments, and future prospects. American Educational Research
Journal, 45(1), 166–183. doi:10.3102/0002831207312909

Received 18 December 2015; revised version received 20 July 2016

 20448279, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://bpspsychub.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bjep.12126 by Zhejiang University, Wiley Online Library on [21/07/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License