ASSESSMENT & EVALUATION IN HIGHER EDUCATION 
https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2025.2587925 

An empirical study of Chinese EFL student writers  use of GenAI feedback during revision: perceptions, engagement and motivational impact
Xiaosa Lia  , Wenyu Wangb and Lili Guc
aCollege of Art, Nanjing University of Information Science & Technology, Nanjing, China; bDepartment of College English, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China; cSchool of Foreign Languages and Literature, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing, China

ABSTRACT
This  mixed-methods  study  aimed  to  investigate  how  English  as  a foreign  language  (EFL)  student  writers  perceive  and  engage  with GenAI feedback during revision. The participants were a class of 36 English majors enrolled in an advanced English class where a com - bined  approach  of  GenAI,  peer  and  teacher  feedback  was  imple - mented in writing. Six students of different proficiency were chosen as  the  focal  participants.  Multiple  sources  of  data  (questionnaire, GenAI  logs,  writing  drafts,  semi-structured  interviews)  were  col - lected  after  a  semester-long  treatment.  The  results  indicate  that while  GenAI  feedback  was  generally  perceived  to  demonstrate impressive  capacity  in  providing  corrective  feedback,  its  motiva - tional  impact  on  EFL  writing  was  dubious  because  of  computer- sourced  feedback s  fundamental  inability  for  recognition,  coupled with  the  social,  communicative  nature  of  writing. The  inability  of GenAI to be involved in genuinely recognitive relations poses both opportunities  and  challenges  in  higher  education  feedback  prac - tices. Educators are advised to preserve the unique value of human aspects  in  pedagogical  relationships  when  trying  to  integrate GenAI into traditional feedback mechanisms.
KEYWORDS
GenAI feedback; EFL writing; recognition; extra-recognitive

Introduction
English  as  a  foreign  language  (EFL)  student  writers  need  substantial  feedback  to improve their writing (Bitchener and Storch  2016; Lee 2018). However, it is unlikely for them to receive frequent and timely feedback from the teachers because of the massification of higher education, resource constraints and the emotion-laden nature of feedback (Carless and Boud 2018; Storch 2018). The advent of GenAI has been considered to provide an efficient means to address some of the challenges in writing feedback practices (Barrot 2023; Su, Lin, and Lai 2023; Teng 2024). However, under- lying the assumption that GenAI can overcome these difficulties by increasing the 
CONTACT Xiaosa Li  lixiaosa1031@nuist.edu.cn, 1589507279@qq.com  College of Art, Nanjing University of Information Science & Technology, Nanjing, China
' 2025  Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group

ASSESSMENT & EVALUATION IN HIGHER EDUCATION  15
amount of feedback is a simplified understanding of feedback that prioritises infor- mation  generation  and  transfer  (Corbin,  Tai,  and  Flenady  2025).  In  fact,  recent conceptualisations of feedback highlight the agentic role of the students in perceiving, interpreting and making use of feedback (Carless and Boud 2018; Henderson, Ryan, and  Phillips  2019).  Trivialising  these  aspects  in  feedback  processes  may  lead  to  a potentially harmful emphasis on speed and quantity rather than genuine quality in feedback practices.
Drawing  on  Corbin,  Tai,  and  Flenady  (2025)  recognition-based  framework  of feedback  which  suggests  that  GenAI-sourced  feedback  differs  qualitatively  from human-provided  feedback  in  its  recognition-incapable  or  extra-recognitive  nature, this  paper  attempts  to  identify  the  places  where  GenAI  feedback  is  deemed  most appropriate  or  beneficial  by  EFL  student  writers  and  where  it  fails  to  replicate human-to-human feedback processes in EFL writing. Although our study emanates from  a  classroom-based  university  EFL  writing  context,  we  believe  that  insights gleaned from this study can not only enrich our understanding of the affordances and constraints of GenAI feedback in the EFL classroom, but help higher education educators make informed decisions about how to optimise feedback practices through leveraging the power of GenAI.
Literature review
A recognition-based framework of feedback
Recent  conceptualisations  of  feedback  tend  to  view  feedback  as  a  dialogic  process between  the  feedback  provider  and  the  recipient  (Carless  and  Boud  2018).  As  in any  dialogue,  the  affective  and  relational  dimensions  are  essential  components  of effective feedback processes. It is widely acknowledged that students in higher edu- cation  contexts  experience  a  range  of  emotions  in  feedback  processes,  such  as happiness  in  receiving  praise,  disappointment  when  getting  negative  feedback,  or anger  towards  insufficient  feedback  (Carless  and  Winstone  2023).  In  light  of  the consequences of negative affect, feedback processes can be enhanced when relational support is offered through emotional sensitivity, empathy and trust (Carless  2012). Students may allocate a hierarchy of trust and value to different feedback processes based on the feedback providers  qualities, regardless of the content of the feedback message received (Ranalli 2021; Zhou et al. 2021). Building trusting and respectful relations  between  the  feedback  provider  and  the  feedback  receiver  is  therefore essential to the construction of dialogic, productive feedback processes (Carless and Winstone  2023).
The  establishment  of  trust  between  feedback  interlocutors  hinges  on  a  pivotal but often implicit quality of effective feedback: recognition, or  the mutual acknowl- edgement of agency, vulnerability and shared humanity between teacher and student  (Corbin, Tai, and Flenady 2025, p. 2). According to the researchers, both the feed- back  provider  and  the  receiver  are  vulnerable  to  the  judgement  of  the  other  in feedback processes: the receiver (often the student) has their performance evaluated while  the  provider  (often  the  teacher)  has  their  ability  to  make  sound  judgement under examination. This vulnerability is a condition of building trusting relationships 
between  the  provider  and  the  receiver.  On  that  basis,  Corbin,  Tai,  and  Flenady (2025) propose a conceptual framework that distinguishes between  recognitive  and  extra-recognitive   feedback.  Recognitive  feedback  is  characterised  by  potentially mutually recognitive relations between the provider and the recipient. This form of feedback cannot be reduced to information transmission or performance assessment. It does not depend on the quality or authority of that information itself. Rather, it is a process through which the identities of both the provider and the recipient are affirmed  and  developed.  In  contrast,  extra-recognitive  feedback,  i.e.  automated  or GenAI feedback, does not have this crucial element of mutual recognition. It may provide  accurate  evaluation  information  that  is  personalised   to  the  student  work or performance, but it fundamentally lacks the capacity to recognise the student as a  human  being  and  a  developing  scholar.  GenAI-provided  feedback  is  primarily  a unidirectional transmission of information, lacking the reciprocal nature that char - acterises recognitive feedback. GenAI feedback is unable to achieve a genuine under- standing of the student s unique learning context, though it may attempt superficial personalisation  by  mentioning  some  details  of  a  student s  work.  Consequently,  in places  where  extra-recognitive  feedback  is  used  to  replace  recognitive  feedback,  a student s desire  to have their effort and developing capacities recognised by another human being who shares in that desire is thwarted  (Corbin, Tai, and Flenady  2025, p.  9).  GenAI  might  pretend  to  show  achievement  recognition  and  respect  for  the student s  vulnerability  to  judgement,  but  it  simply  lacks  the  recognitive  quality exhibited  by  another  human  being  who  genuinely  shares  the  lived  experiences  of trying, making mistakes, and learning from the mistakes.
GenAI feedback on EFL writing
With GenAI becoming ubiquitous in the educational landscape, EFL student writers are increasingly turning to GenAI to revise more effectively (Guo and Wang 2024; Warschauer et al. 2023; Zou et al. 2025). In the process, users need to interact with GenAI  for  feedback,  meaning  that  the  quality  of  the  feedback  is  determined  to  a great extent by the effectiveness of the prompt, or the user s AI literacy. Addressing feedback  literacy  in  the  EFL  context,  Zhan  and  Yan  (2025)  identify  that  student feedback literacy in the GenAI era comprises the following components: the capa- bility  to  compose  and  refine  feedback  prompts;  evaluating  the  quality  of  GenAI outputs; ethical decision-making about how to use the feedback; emotional reflexivity to  adjust  levels  of  trust;  and  deploying  meta-cognitive  skills  to  regulate  their  own feedback processes with respect to GenAI. The researchers postulate that engagement with feedback is a method of aligning these feedback skills with their environment in terms of seeking, processing and enacting feedback.
Recent  studies  indicate  that  EFL  learners  generally  have  positive  perceptions  of accuracy and usefulness of GenAI feedback. Drawing on a large-scale cross-sectional survey administered across four major Australian universities, Henderson et al. (2025) reported  that  students  valued  GenAI  feedback  for  its  ease  of  access,  timeliness, understandability, and that it was perceived to be less risky than seeking feedback from  teachers.  Studies  in  the  EFL  context  have  found  that  students  appreciate  its promptness  and  ability  of  identify  errors  (Liu  et al.  2024;  Wang  2024; Zou  et al. 2025).  However,  concerns  remain  regarding  the  lack  of  context-specific explanations  and  emotional  support,  as  well  as  potential  over-reliance  (Shi  et al. 2025).  Students  have  diverse  attitudes  and  preferences  for  GenAI  feedback,  with many favouring a combination of GenAI and human feedback. Studies that compared GenAI  feedback  with  human  feedback  (e.g.  Zou  et al. 2025)  found  that  students displayed higher levels of engagement and achieved greater accuracy in their revisions when  using  teacher  feedback  and  that  there  was  a  general  preference  for  teacher feedback, though students recognised the unique strengths of ChatGPT feedback.
Current studies have reported mixed results regarding the impact of GenAI feed- back on EFL writing. On the performance level, some studies have shown that the use  of  GenAI  feedback  had  a  positive  impact  on  student  performance  (Shi  and Aryadoust 2024; Wang 2024), and were  in some cases even comparable to well-trained human evaluators  (Nazaretsky et al. 2024, p. 285). Similarly, Tsai, Lin, and Brown (2024) reported that ChatGPT-assisted revision significantly improved 44 EFL under- graduates   writing  quality  in  vocabulary,  grammar,  organisation,  and  content.  On the motivation level, inconsistent results yielded from previous studies. Wang (2024) found  that  learners  who  received  GenAI  feedback  rated  lowest  on  anxiety  scales. While  Teng  (2024)  found  that  AI-assistance  could  significantly  enhance  student writers  motivation and writing self-efficacy, Shi et al. (2025) reported that though their  ChatGPT  group  scored  significantly  higher  than  the  automated  writing  eval- uation (AWE) group and the control group in post-writing performance, the ideal L2  (second  language)  writing  self  for  the  ChatGPT  group  was  significantly  lower than the other groups. Given the inconsistency, more empirical studies are needed to investigate student writers  engagement with GenAI feedback and the motivational impact of GenAI feedback on EFL writing.
The present study
Since  the  release  of  ChatGPT  in  2022,  several  GenAI  tools  developed  by  Chinese companies (e.g. DeepSeek, Kimi) have become freely available in China. These systems have quickly become popular among Chinese EFL student writers who seek to cap- italise on this cutting-edge technology to enhance their writing. Presently, there is a paucity of research on how Chinese EFL student writers perceive and utilise GenAI feedback  for  revision  purposes.  To  our  best  knowledge,  no  empirical  study  has examined students  engagement with GenAI feedback through the theoretical lens of extra-recognitive feedback. Without a nuanced understanding of students  perceptions and  experiences  of  using  this  form  of  extra-recognitive  feedback  to  improve  their writing,  it  is  not  possible  for  EFL  teachers  to  make  informed  decisions  about  how to effectively incorporate GenAI into their traditional feedback practices. Therefore, the present study aims to address the following research questions:
RQ1: How do EFL student writers perceive GenAI feedback for revision purposes? RQ2: How do these student writers engage with GenAI feedback during revision?
RQ3: What impact does using GenAI feedback have on their writing motivation?
Method
Context and participants
This study took place at a university in East China during the fall 2024 semester. The  students  were  a  class  of  36  junior  English  majors  (31  females  and  5  males). Prior to this study, they had passed TEM 4 (a standardised English language pro- ficiency  test  for  English  majors)  with  an  average  score  of  67  out  of  100,  roughly comparable to 6.0 on IELTS. The class were enrolled in a 16-week advanced English course intended to enhance junior students  writing competence, among other objec - tives.  The  class  met  twice  a  week  for  90 min  in  each  session.  Major  assignments included seven writing tasks (four argumentative and three narrative writings). The students were required to work independently to finish the first draft and then feed it to GenAI for feedback. The revised draft was then submitted for peer feedback and  teacher  assessment.  Oral  consent  was  obtained  from  the  students  in  the  class to participate in the study. At the end of the semester, ten students volunteered for an in-depth semi-structured interview. Six were selected from the volunteers to be the  focal  participants  balanced  on  gender,  proficiency  and  digital  literacy  (see Table 1).
The  course  was  instructed  by  the  first  author.  Prior  to  this  study,  the  teacher had a meta-dialogue with the class about her idea of making sensible use of GenAI in the classroom EFL writing context: GenAI could be used for brainstorming and revising  purposes,  but  not  for  drafting.  To  ensure  transparency,  the  students  were required  to  submit  the  first  draft  and  GenAI  use  description  along  with  the revised draft.
Instruments
Questionnaire
Informed  by  previous  research  (e.g.  Teng 2024),  a  questionnaire  consisting  of  22 multiple-choice  questions  and  an  open-ended  question  (see  Table  2)  was  designed to investigate students  perceptions and experiences of using GenAI feedback during 
Table 1.  Background information of the focal participants.
Student Age Gender Proficiency Learning goal
Advanced  Lucy 21 F ITELTS: 7.0 Going to graduate school learners Zoey 20 F ITELTS: 7.5 Pursuing further study abroad Don 21 M ITELTS: 7.5 Pursuing further study abroad
Intermediate  Phebe 21 F TEM 4: 74 Becoming an English teacher learners Jessie 21 F TEM 4: 72 Going to graduate school Wendy 22 F TEM 4: 65 Going to graduate school
Table 2.  Structure of the questionnaire. 
Question type Category Item No. Multiple-choice Students  perceptions of GenAI feedback 1—9
Students  engagement with GenAI feedback 10—17
Motivational impact of using GenAI feedback 18—22 Open-ended Comparison with human feedback 23
revision. Students were asked to respond on a Likert scale ranging from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree). A preliminary version of the questionnaire had been administered  to  a  different  class  in  a  pilot  study.  Minor  adjustments  were  made accordingly to avoid ambiguity. The Cronbach s value for the questionnaire was 0.82, indicating acceptable reliability.
Interview
Semi-structured interviews were conducted to gather a more nuanced understanding of how the EFL student writers perceived and engaged with GenAI feedback during revision.  The  interview  questions  probed  their  interest  in  learning  English  and writing,  their  learning  goals,  perceived  level  of  digital  literacy,  along  with  other inquiries to gather related biographical information. We also encouraged the students to  freely  share  their  thoughts  and  feelings  related  to  GenAI  use  in  EFL  writing. This approach allowed for a richer exploration of the students  thoughts and feelings, providing  a  nuanced  perspective  that  complements  the  quantitative  data  collected through the questionnaire.
Data collection
The questionnaire was administered in paper form during the last meeting. On aver - age, the students spent 12 min responding to the questionnaire. The questionnaire was anonymous, ensuring that the students felt comfortable about sharing their opinions.
Writing  drafts  (Task  3,  5  and  7)  of  the  six  focal  participants,  along  with  their corresponding GenAI logs, were collected. As the revised drafts had peer and teacher comments  on  them,  peer  and  teacher  feedback was gathered at the same time. In total, 36 drafts were collected from the focal participants.
The semi-structured interviews were conducted in Chinese on a one-to-one basis to  ensure  the  participants  could  feel  at  ease  when  communicating  their  thoughts and personal experiences. References were made to their writing drafts where nec- essary. Each interview lasted between 35 and 50 min. With the consent of the par- ticipants, all of the interviews were audio-recorded for subsequent transcription and analysis.
Data analysis
Upon review, we found that two students chose the same answer to all the multi-choice question  items  on  the  questionnaire.  Their  responses  were  deemed  unfit  for  the research and excluded from analysis. The remaining questionnaire responses (n = 34) were manually entered into the computer. SPSS 17.0 was used to calculate the means and SD of students  responses to each multiple-choice question item.
The  GenAI  logs  were  analysed  to  identify  the  number  of  prompts,  the  nature  of these prompts (e.g. seeking grammar correction, content improvement), and the sequence of interactions. The feedback was divided into feedback on content and feedback on language (i.e. corrective feedback). Feedback on content encompasses content relevance, text organisation, logic, etc., while feedback on language consists of  errors  (e.g. Children may form stereotypes of what is good and what is devil → Children may form stereotypes 
Table 3.  Coding scheme of the qualitative data.
Code                Sub-code                                   Example
Perceptions         Overall attitude Effectiveness             GenAI is a very useful feedback provider.
Experiences         Trust                                      Kimi does a great job by making my language 
                    Affordances/ limitations                   concise while retaining the original meaning. Machines are machines. I
                    Comparison with human                       can t trust GenAI
                    feedback                                    feedback
                    Feedback-seeking Evaluative judgement      the way I trust teacher feedback.
                     Selective acceptance Emotions and         Kimi can make the language look natural by 
                     feelings                                  replacing the Chinglish elements.
                                                               I certainly feel more relaxed asking GenAI for 
                                                               feedback. It has infinite patience.
                                                               GenAI feedback is a cheap substitute for teacher 
                                                               feedback when the latter is not available.
                                                               You need to be explicit in giving directions. It will  not 
                                                               do if you simply tell it to comment on this essay. This is good, but it
                                                                s far too good. It doesn t sound
                                                                
                                                               like me.
                                                               This can remove the Chinglish element in my 
                                                               sentence, so I adopted it.
                                                               Honestly, ChatGPT affects my self-evaluation. 
                                                               Sometimes I think I am useless.
of  what  is  good  and  what  is  evil)  and  rewritings   (e.g. By  means  of  it,  they  can  tell whether the thing is good or not → By reading fairy tales, children can learn to differ- entiate between good and bad). Students  drafts were analysed to code revision operations ( accept  or  reject ).
The recordings of the interviews were transcribed verbatim and then translated into English where necessary. Analysis of the interviews and students  responses to the open-ended question on the questionnaire was undertaken following the inductive qualitative  coding  approaches  (Salda  Sald na  2015).  The  first  round  of  coding involved identifying themes that were related to the research questions. On the basis of the initial codes, a coding scheme was developed to reveal the emergent themes (see Table  3  for  sample  codes).  To  enhance  validity  of  the  analysis  procedure,  we carried out member checks by sharing our interpretations with the participants for feedback. Minor adjustments were made accordingly.
Findings
Student perceptions
Quantitative results regarding students  perceptions of GenAI feedback are presented in Table 4. Overall, the students tended to find GenAI feedback helpful in improving their writing, especially in terms of error reduction. Although they appreciated the value of GenAI feedback and exhibited the willingness to receive GenAI feedback, they had limited confidence in the quality of GenAI feedback, and they expressed a strong need for human feedback, particularly that from the teacher. Corroborating the  questionnaire  results,  interview  data  indicate  that  the  students  found  GenAI feedback have great potential to improve their writing and facilitate language learn- ing.  The  benefits  include  suggesting  advanced  words  and  expressions,  expanding their vocabulary, increasing their lexical diversity and replacing awkward expressions with more idiomatic ones, as illustrated below:
Table 4.  Student perceptions of GenAI feedback (n = 34).
Item         Content                                                                                 Mean              SD
No.1 No.2    I find GenAI feedback useful in enhancing the quality of my essays. I find GenAI        3.68 4.15 3.76    0.64 0.50
 No.3         feedback useful in reducing grammar                                                     3.53 3.82 3.32    0.61 0.61
 No.4         errors.                                                                                 3.74              0.52 0.68
 No.5        I find GenAI feedback useful in improving my language.                                   4.29              0.51
 No.6        I find GenAI feedback useful in improving my content.                                   4.76               0.63
No.7 No.8    I appreciate the value of GenAI feedback.                                                                 0.43
No.9         I have confidence in the quality of GenAI feedback.
             I want to have GenAI feedback on my writing.
             I want to have peer feedback despite the availability of GenAI 
             feedback.
             I want to have teacher feedback despite the availability of GenAI 
             feedback.
Phebe: It gives me a lot of useful suggestions, so I don t have to stick to familiar words and sentences. I can try more advanced words.
Wendy: The feedback is very good. I often write long-winded sentences, and Kimi does a great job by making them concise while retaining the original meaning.
The students tended to consider GenAI a valuable source of feedback (m = 3.82), as presented in Table 4. Responses to the open-ended question on the questionnaire indicate that they appreciated the timeliness, easy access, and efficiency afforded by GenAI feedback. Perceived usefulness of GenAI feedback was manifested more on the  language  dimension  (m = 3.76)  than  the  content  dimension  ( m = 3.53).  In  fact, 16  students  chose  Disagree   or  Neutral   when  asked  whether  they  found  GenAI feedback  useful  in  enhancing  the  content.  The  interviews  yielded  a  similar  result. While all the focal participants underscored its helpfulness in removing the unidi- omatic language elements in their writing and expanding their vocabulary, only one interviewee  (Lucy)  stressed  GenAI s  potential  to  improve  the  logic  in  her  writing and strengthen the argument with more relevant supporting details.
Despite  the  perceived  value  of  GenAI  feedback,  the  students  did  not  manifest much  confidence  in  its  overall  reliability  (m = 3.32).  They  reported  being  wary  of the fallibility of GenAI output and expressed a calibrated trust in feedback generated by  this  technological  source,  as  shown  in  the  following  excerpts  from  their  ques- tionnaire responses:
1. GenAI feedback is a cheap substitute for teacher feedback when the latter is not available.
2. Most  of  the  suggestions  are  helpful,  but  sometimes  it  can  make  ridiculous mistakes. You have to evaluate its effectiveness.
3. GenAI  is  not  reliable.  It  often  provides  suggestions  that  look  brilliant  but actually make no sense.
The students pointed out quite a number of problems with GenAI feedback. Most notably,  GenAI  feedback  was  largely  limited  to  the  language  dimension  (n = 7), GenAI was unable to empathise with the students (n = 21), and GenAI feedback was void of feelings and emotions (n = 11). In cases where GenAI tried to congratulate the  student  writers  on  completing  a  writing  task,  they  found  the  congratulation artificial. One student wrote specifically that she found GenAI s compliments  sound insincere . The students were aware of the social dimension of writing, as put by a student,  What I want is more than judgement of my essay. I want to how people feel  and  what  they  think  after  the  reading.   However,  recognition  is  exactly  what GenAI cannot afford. Given the mismatch between the extra-recognitive nature of GenAI  feedback  and  the  social,  communicative  nature  of  writing,  it  came  as  no surprise that the students expressed a strong need for both peer feedback (m = 4.29) and teacher feedback (m = 4.76). In total, 27 out of the 34 students wrote that they felt  encouraged ,  motivated ,  valued as a person ,  seen ,  satisfied  or  recognised  after reading the peers  comments on their writing. Similarly, 16 students mentioned that they could  relate to  the teacher s comments, or felt they were  seen .
Student engagement
As presented in Table 5, when seeking GenAI feedback to improve the writing, the students   major  concern  was  on  the  language  rather  than  on  the  content.  They tended to read GenAI feedback carefully, assess the effectiveness of GenAI feedback and  evaluate  the  reliability  of  GenAI  feedback.  They  accepted  feedback  that  were considered useful while rejecting generic or formulaic feedback.
The  qualitative  results  largely  align  with  the  quantitative  results,  but  can  reveal subtle individual differences. The interviewees reported using different GenAI tools for  feedback,  with  the  most  commonly  used  tools  being  DeepSeek  and  Kimi. Significant differences were observed in the way they sought feedback from GenAI, as shown in Table 6. The time they spent engaging with the feedback varied from 25 min to approximately 3 h. Despite the interactive nature of GenAI, the students were not inclined to interact with GenAI, particularly when they got familiar with its functionalities. Phebe and Lucy had more rounds of interaction with GenAI than the others due to their interest in experimenting with new technologies and com - municating  with  friends  about  how  to  refine  prompts  to  elicit  the  right  kind  of response . Lucy underscored the importance of giving specific prompts and following up with more refined prompts if the response did not meet her need.
Most of the prompts were meant to elicit feedback on language issues (see Table 6), indicating that the students  primary goal in the revision process was to improve the language by making it more  native-like  (Don). One reason might be students  distrust in GenAI s capability to offer effective feedback on higher-order issues. Take Task  5  as  an  example,  Zoey  did  ask  for  feedback  on  her  content,  but  received 
Table 5.  Student engagement with GenAI feedback.
Item           Content                                                                             Mean               SD
No.10 No.11    I sought GenAI feedback on the language in my writing.                              4.44 3.62 3.88 3.880.50 0.78 0.77
 No.12         I sought GenAI feedback on the content in my writing.                               3.65 3.97           0.77
 No.13         I read GenAI feedback carefully in the revision process.                            4.12 3.32          0.69 0.58
No.14 No.15    I made judgement about the usefulness of GenAI feedback in                                             0.59 0.81
No.16 No.17    the revision.
               I verified the accuracy of GenAI feedback when I was not sure. I incorporated GenAI
                feedback that I considered helpful into
                
               the revision.
               I rejected GenAI feedback that I considered formulaic.
               I enjoyed using GenAI feedback to revise my writings.
Table 6.  Prompt-giving behaviour (L stands for language and C for content). 
Task 3 Task 5 Task 7
Stu No. Focus No. Focus No. Focus
Phebe 3 L 5 L 4 3L + 1 C Jessie 1 L 1 L 1 L Wendy 1 L 1 L 1 L Lucy 3 2L + 1 C 4 2L + 2 C 4 3L + 1 C Zoey 2 1L + 1 C 2 1L +1 C 1 L Don 2 1L + 1 C 1 L 1 L
generic, inactionable comments on the relevance of her argument, structure of the essay, etc. When asked why she did not follow up with more refined prompts, Zoey replied that she simply did not believe it could give  the right kind of response . As for Don, he explained that he did not want GenAI to  undermine the integrity  of his  writing.  It  seemed  that  it  was  his  conscious  choice  and  strategic  decision  to limit GenAI feedback to language issues.
The interviewees seeking feedback on content reported having difficulties applying it to revision. Yet the difficulties that they encountered were of different nature. As in  the  case  of  Task  5,  Zoey  gave  DeekSeek  a  broad  prompt  to  comment  on  her essay and therefore received formulaic comments. She did not finetune the prompt to  elicit  more  actionable  feedback.  As  for  Lucy,  she  seemed  to  be  caught  between sticking  to  her  own  ideas  and  following  the  recommendations  made  by  ChatGPT. She  recalled  contemplating  tossing  aside  her  original  arguments  and  substituting them with the  brilliant, convincing arguments  provided by ChatGPT. After seeking assistance from the teacher, the girl came to recognise the importance of maintaining her authorial integrity and retaining her own voice.
Most of the corrective feedback was perceived by the interviewees to be effective and taken up in their revision. Almost all of the feedback on linguistic and mechanic errors was accepted by the participants (> 90%). Acceptance rate of rewriting sug- gestions  were  lower,  but  still  remarkably  high,  especially  among  the  intermediate learners  (>  75%).  These  students  reported  making  evaluative  judgments  of  the feedback. Four of them noted that GenAI tended to replace the original  plain words  with  advanced words  (Jessie), but such changes were not always necessary. Phebe remarked that  GenAI was so keen on improving the vocabulary that it twisted my meaning.  The students reported rejecting rewriting suggestions that they judged to be  good  but  beyond  their  reach.  Figure  1  shows  a  case  where  Jessie  rejected  the feedback on the ground that  it doesn t sound like me :
Motivational impact
Despite the perceived value of GenAI feedback, its affective or motivational impact on  these  EFL  learners  seems  to  be  dubious,  as  shown  in Table  7.  While  having GenAI feedback could reduce students  anxiety about revising and strengthen their confidence  in  writing,  it  seems  doubtful  whether  GenAI  feedback  enhanced  their writing efficacy or increased their interest in EFL writing.
Only  nine  out  of  the  34  students  agreed  or  strongly  agreed  with  the  statement that  GenAI  feedback  stimulated  their  interest  in  writing.  As  many  as  20  students 

Figure 1.  Jessie s original sentence and GenAI s rewriting.
chose  Disagree   or  Neutral   when  asked  whether  GenAI  feedback  boosted  their confidence  in  writing.  The  interview  results  reveal  that  Phebe  was  the  only  focal participant  who  agreed  that  GenAI  feedback  fueled  my  enthusiasm  for  writing . Compared  with  Phebe,  the  other  interviewees,  especially  the  advanced  learners, seemed to harbour mixed feelings about using this source of feedback. The use of GenAI triggered their identity tension, making them  worried about the legitimacy and necessity of the existence of their major in the AI era  (Zoey), or disoriented because of the  shadow cast by GenAI of displacing human jobs  (Don). Aside from the  identity  tension,  the  students  also  reported  feeling  dwarfed  by  GenAI  because it  was  able  to  produce  a  seemingly  fluent,  coherent  essay  within  seconds   (Zoey). This seeming ease threatened to undermine their confidence. Rather than stimulating their  interest  in  EFL  writing,  it  seems  that  GenAI  feedback  robbed  them  of  some of their passion for writing.
Perhaps the most fundamental reason why the students did not find themselves motivated by GenAI feedback lies in the fact that writing is a social act but GenAI lacks the capability to recognise the human writer s need for genuine communication and connection. In all probability, the dissonance between GenAI s incapability for recognition  and  the  communicative  nature  of  writing  is  where  the  rub  is.  As  a matter of fact, when explaining why GenAI feedback failed to stimulate their interest in  writing  or  enhance  their  writing  self-efficacy,  two  interviewees  attributed  it  to the incongruence between GenAI s lack of humanity and their need for recognition as human beings in the following excerpts:
Zoey: I want somebody to respond to my writing, to resonate with me, especially with narrative writings. Come to think about it, why do we write? We write to communicate, to express our thoughts and feelings, and to be seen. We want a human ear!
Don: GenAI can assess my writing, but the teacher s comments make me feel supported and valued as a person. GenAI feedback sounds cold, lacking human warmth.
Discussion
Our study on student writers  perceptions and experiences of using GenAI feedback for revision has revealed the affordances and inherent limitations of GenAI-sourced feedback  in  the  context  of  EFL  writing.  To  begin  with,  our  findings  indicate  that the area where GenAI feedback might be most profitable lies in providing corrective feedback, such as pointing out grammatical errors, suggesting alternative expressions, and  rephrasing  sentences.  We  have  found  that  the  students  appreciated  the 
Table 7.  Motivational impact of GenAI feedback.
Item            Content                                                                                Mean            SD
No.18 No.19     Having GenAI feedback makes me feel good about EFL writing. Having GenAI feedback      3.47 3.74 3.71  0.66 0.86 0.80
 No.20 No.21     strengthens my confidence in EFL writing. Having GenAI feedback reduces my anxiety     3.00            0.98
 No.22           about revision. Having GenAI feedback increases my interest in EFL writing. Having    3.59             0.89
                 GenAI feedback enhances my writing
                 competence.
immediacy and effectiveness of GenAI feedback in enhancing their language, regard- ing GenAI as a helpful and useful source of feedback on language issues. Consistent with  previous  studies  (e.g.  Liu  et al. 2024;  Tsai,  Lin,  and  Brown 2024;  Yan 2023), the corrective feedback produced by GenAI was perceived by the students to offer such benefits as expanding their vocabulary, activating inert items in their mental lexicon and introducing native-like expressions. Given that using correct, idiomatic English is a deep-seated, even inherent concern for Chinese EFL learners (Lee 2018), it  seems  that  GenAI  feedback  affords  a  low-risk  environment  where  the  student writers can feel less anxious about making language mistakes and learn from those mistakes.
Unlike Teng (2024) and Woo et al. (2024), we have found GenAI feedback man- ifested  limited  potential  to  stimulate  students   interest  in  writing  and  boost  their writing  self-efficacy.  While  some  students  acknowledged  a  reduced  personal  risk interacting with GenAI for feedback, the majority were keenly aware of its lessened sense of connection (Henderson et al. 2025). GenAI feedback was perceived by the students to be  cold ,  lacking human warmth , or  insincere , aside from its inability to provide contextualised or personalised comments. Affording a lessened personal risk is probably the only positive affective impact of GenAI feedback. Our findings reveal  that  GenAI  feedback  made  the  students  feel  safer   about  making  mistakes without motivating them to write more or increasing their interest in writing. The mismatch between the extra-recognitive nature of GenAI feedback (Corbin, Tai, and Flenady 2025) and the social, communicative nature of writing is likely at the root of student writers  distrust of GenAI feedback and its limited motivational impact. People write chiefly to communicate ideas, experiences and emotions, and to connect with others. This social nature of writing dictates that we want people to respond to  our  writing  as  part  of  their  feedback.  This  is  also  applicable  to  learner  writing and/or  EFL  writing,  though  student  writers  need  more  corrective  feedback  from more  knowledgeable  others.  Despite  GenAI s  capacity  to  interact  with  users  in  a conversational  way,  it  does  not  have  embodied  experiences  to  form  contextualised understanding of events or genuine emotions. What GenAI has is abstract concepts, for  instance,  of  happiness   and  frustration.   It  is  unlikely  for  GenAI  to  replicate human-like reaction to writing that would elicit empathy from or trigger connection with  human  readers.  With  writing,  including  EFL  writing,  the  writer  wants  real response  to  the  content  to  gratify  their  need  for  recognition  as  a  human  being, hence the irreplaceability of recognitive, human feedback in writing pedagogy.
Interestingly, this study on GenAI feedback reveals the unique value, effectiveness and relational impact of human feedback practice. Effective feedback is more than information generation and transfer. Recent discussions of effective feedback highlight 
the affective and relational aspects of feedback (Carless and Winstone 2023; Zhou et al. 2021). Our participants  perceived distrust of GenAI feedback stands in con- trast to their high regard for human feedback, especially feedback provided by the teacher.  They  valued  feedback  from  peers  and  the  teacher,  thinking  that  it  made them feel  seen ,  recognised ,  validated  as a developing scholar and a human being. Aside  from  providing  academic  support,  teacher/peer  feedback  offered  a  valuable way of establishing and strengthening the connection between the feedback provider and the recipient. Our findings have affirmed the suggestion that GenAI feedback and human feedback serve different needs and are not interchangeable (Henderson et al. 2025),  indicating  that  the  human  aspects  of  feedback  cannot  be  replaced  or mimicked  by  GenAI.  These  findings  have  important  implications  for  educators seeking to incorporate GenAI feedback into traditional feedback practices. It is vital to recognise that GenAI feedback can neither replicate the pedagogical efficacy of teacher-provided  feedback  nor  produce  the  relational  and  motivational  impact  of human-provided  feedback.  We  must  resist  the  temptation  to  assign  the  task  of offering time-consuming and little-appreciated feedback to GenAI. Instead of viewing these systems as cheap substitutes for teachers, educators must thoughtfully consider how to tap into their strengths while preserving the valuable, irreplaceable aspects of human-to-human feedback practice (Corbin, Tai, and Flenady  2025).
Additionally, we have found that the students experienced various problems and difficulties  in  their  engagement  with  GenAI  feedback.  Most  of  the  focal  students tended to give one prompt in their interaction with GenAI, revealing the tendency to  view  feedback  as  one-way  information  transmission  (Carless  and  Boud 2018). The students found many revision suggestions given by GenAI  far too good , indi- cating  a  need  for  more  desired,  comprehensible  feedback  (Xu  and  Zhang  2022). These  findings  hold  critical  implications  for  fostering  student  digital  competence (Warschauer et al. 2023) and refining teacher feedback practice in the EFL writing context (Liu et al. 2024). The tendency among students to issue merely one broad prompt for feedback indicates the necessity of enhancing students  digital feedback literacy in a time of GenAI (Wang and Wang 2025). EFL writing teachers need to encourage students to shift from a passive stance of one-way information transmis- sion (Carless and Boud 2018) to an active mode of in-depth, multiple-round inter - action with GenAI (Zhan and Yan 2025). They are also advised to provide scaffolding and  guidance  to  students  and  demonstrate  constructive  approaches  to  interacting with GenAI for more desired feedback on both language and content issues.
Conclusion
Drawing on the recognition-based framework of feedback by Corbin, Tai, and Flenady (2025),  we  have  identified  that  while  GenAI  feedback  demonstrates  impressive capacity in providing corrective feedback, it fails to produce significant motivational impact on EFL writing because it lacks the fundamental capability for recognition. The  mismatch  between  the  extra-recognitive  nature  of  GenAI  feedback  and  the social, communicative nature of writing underlies the inadequancies of GenAI feed- back in the relational and affective dimensions. The inability of GenAI to be involved in  genuinely  recognitive  relations  poses  both  opportunities  and  challenges  in  EFL writing instruction. EFL teachers can leverage GenAI s capacity for providing timely corrective feedback and focus more on higher-order issues in students  writings, but we must not reduce feedback to mere information transfer and wrongly assume that GenAI can replicate human-provided feedback. Educators must thoughtfully consider how  to  incorporate  GenAI  feedback  into  traditional  feedback  practices  without sacrificing the valuable human aspects in pedagogical relationships.
Despite  these  insights,  the  study  has  several  limitations.  The  sample  size  was relatively small, potentially restricting the generalisability of the findings. Larger-scale research across diverse educational settings is needed to extend the current findings. Longitudinal  studies  are  warranted  to  understand  the  long-term  impact  of  GenAI on  students   writing  development.  Future  research  could  also  compare  students  perceptions  and  experiences  of  using  different  sources  of  feedback  to  yield  more insights  into  qualitative  differences  between  GenAI  feedback  and  human-provided feedback.
Disclosure statement
No potential conflict of interest was reported by the authors.
Funding
This work was supported by the Philosophy and Social Sciences Project of Higher Education Institutions, Jiangsu Provincial Department of Education (Grant No. 2024SJZD089).
ORCID
Xiaosa Li  http://orcid.org/0000-0003-0411-1122
References
Barrot,  J.  S. 2023.  Using  ChatGPT  for  Second  Language  Writing:  Pitfalls  and  Potentials.  
Assessing Writing 57: 100745. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asw.2023.100745.
Bitchener,  J.,  and  N.  Storch. 2016. Written  Corrective  Feedback  for  L2  Development.  Bristol, 
UK: Multilingual Matters.
Carless, D. 2012.  Trust and Its Role in Facilitating Dialogic Feedback.  In Feedback in Higher 
and Professional Education, 90—103. London: Routledge.
Carless,  D.,  and  D.  Boud. 2018.  The  Development  of  Student  Feedback  Literacy:  Enabling 
Uptake  of  Feedback.   Assessment  &  Evaluation  in  Higher  Education  43  (8):  1315—1325. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2018.1463354.
Carless, D., and N. Winstone. 2023.  Teacher Feedback Literacy and Its Interplay with Student 
Feedback Literacy.  Teaching in Higher Education 28 (1): 150—163. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 13562517.2020.1782372.
Corbin,  T.,  J.  Tai,  and  G.  Flenady. 2025.  Understanding  the  Place  and  Value  of  GenAI 
Feedback: A Recognition-Based Framework.  Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education 50 (5): 718—731. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2025.2459641.
Guo, K., and D. Wang. 2024.  To Resist It or to Embrace It? Examining ChatGPT s Potential 
to Support Teacher Feedback in EFL Writing.  Education and Information Technologies 29 (7): 8435—8463. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-023-12146-0.
Henderson,  M.,  T.  Ryan,  and  M.  Phillips. 2019.  The  Challenges  of  Feedback  in  Higher 
Education.   Assessment  &  Evaluation  in  Higher  Education  44  (8):  1237—1252. https://doi. org/10.1080/02602938.2019.1599815.
Henderson,  M.,  M.  Bearman,  J.  Chung,  T.  Fawns,  S.  B.  Shum,  K.  E.  Matthews,  and  J.  M. 
Heredia.  2025.  Comparing Generative AI and Teacher Feedback: Student Perceptions of Usefulness  and  Trustworthiness.   Assessment  &  Evaluation  in  Higher  Education  50  (1): 1—16. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2025.2502582.
Lee, H. 2018.  The Role of Feedback in the Development of Writing Skills with Automated 
Writing Evaluation Systems.  Journal of Educational Technology & Society 21 (4): 153—166.Liu,  Z.  M.,  G.  J.  Hwang,  C.  Q.  Chen,  X.  D.  Chen,  and  X.  D.  Ye. 2024.  Integrating  Large 
Language  Models  into  EFL  Writing  Instruction:  Effects  on  Performance,  Self-Regulated 
Learning  Strategies,  and  Motivation.   Computer  Assisted  Language  Learning  37  (8):  1—25. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/09588221.2024.2389923.
Nazaretsky,  T.,  P.  Mejia-Domenzain,  v  Swamy,  J.  Frej,  and  T.  K ser. 2024.  AI  or  Human? 
Evaluating  Student  Feedback  Perceptions  in  Higher  Education.   Proceedings  of  the  19th 
European Conference on Technology Enhanced Learning (EC-TEL 2024), Krems, Austria. Ranalli,  J. 2021.  L2  Student  Engagement  with  Automated  Feedback  on  Writing:  Potential 
for Learning and Issues of Trust.   Journal of Second Language Writing 52: 100816. https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.jslw.2021.100816.
Sald na, J. 2015. The Coding Manual for Qualitative Researchers. 4th ed. London: Sage.
Shi, H., C. S. Chai, S. Zhou, and S. Aubrey. 2025.  Comparing the Effects of ChatGPT and 
Automated Writing Evaluation on Students  Writing and Ideal L2 Writing Self.   Computer 
Assisted Language Learning 37 (10): 1—28. https://doi.org/10.1080/09588221.2025.2454541. Shi,  H.,  and  V.  Aryadoust. 2024.  A  Systematic  Review  of  AI-Based  Automated  Written 
Feedback Research.  ReCALL 36 (2): 187—209. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0958344023000265. Storch,  N. 2018.  Written  Corrective  Feedback  from  Sociocultural  Theoretical  Perspectives: 
A Research Agenda.  Language Teaching 51 (2): 262—277. https://doi.org/10.1017/S02614448 
18000034.
Su,  Y.,  Y.  Lin,  and  C.  Lai. 2023.  Collaborating  with  ChatGPT  in  Argumentative  Writing 
Classrooms.   Assessing Writing 57: 100752. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asw.2023.100752.
Teng,  M.  F. 2024.  ChatGPT  is  the  Companion,  Not  Enemies :  EFL  Learners   Perceptions 
and  Experiences  in  Using  ChatGPT  for  Feedback  in  Writing.   Computers  and  Education: Artificial Intelligence (7): 100270. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2024.100270.
Tsai, C., Y. Lin, and I. Brown. 2024.  Impacts of ChatGPT-Assisted Writing for EFL English 
Majors: Feasibility and Challenges.  Education and Information Technologies 29 (17): 22427— 22445. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-024-12722-y.
Wang,  C. 2024.  Exploring  Students   Generative  AI-Assisted  Writing  Processes:  Perceptions 
and Experiences from Native and Nonnative English Speakers.  Technology, Knowledge and Learning 30: 1825—1846. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10758-024-09744-3.
Wang, C., and Z. Wang. 2025.  Investigating L2 Writers  Critical AI Literacy in AI-Assisted 
Writing: An APSE Model.  Journal of Second Language Writing 67: 101187. https://doi.org/ 10.1016/j.jslw.2025.101187.
Warschauer,  M.,  W.  Tseng,  S.  Yim,  T.  Webster,  S.  Jacob,  Q.  Du,  and  T.  Tate. 2023.  The 
Affordances and Contradictions of AI-Generated Text for Writers of English as a Second or  Foreign  Language.   Journal  of  Second  Language  Writing  62:  101071. https://doi. org/10.1016/j.jslw.2023.101071.
Woo, D. J., D. Wang, K. Guo, and H. Susanto. 2024.  Teaching EFL Students to Write with 
ChatGPT: Students  Motivation to Learn, Cognitive Load, and Satisfaction with the Learning Process.   Education  and  Information  Technologies  29  (18):  24963—24990. https://doi.org/ 10.1007/s10639-024-12819-4.
Xu, J., and S. Zhang. 2022.  Understanding AWE Feedback and English Writing of Learners 
with Different Proficiency Levels in an EFL Classroom: A Sociocultural Perspective.  The Asia-Pacific Education Researcher 31 (4): 357—367. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40299-021-00577-7.
Yan, D. 2023.  Impact of ChatGPT on Learners in a L2 Writing Practicum: An Exploratory 
Investigation.   Education  and  Information  Technologies  28  (11):  13943—13967. https://doi. org/10.1007/s10639-023-11742-4.
Zhan,  Y.,  and  Z.  Yan. 2025.  Students   Engagement  with  ChatGPT  Feedback:  Implications 
for Student Feedback Literacy in the Context of Generative Artificial Intelligence.  Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education 50 (3): 1—14. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2025.247 1821.
Zhou,  J.,  P.  Dawson,  J.  H.  M.  Tai,  and  M.  Bearman. 2021.  How  Conceptualising  Respect 
Can  Inform  Feedback  Pedagogies.   Assessment  &  Evaluation  in  Higher  Education  46  (1): 68—79. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2020.1733490.
Zou, S., K. Guo, J. Wang, and Y. Liu. 2025.  Investigating Students  Uptake of Teacher- and 
ChatGPT-Generated  Feedback  in  EFL  Writing:  A  Comparison  Study.   Computer  Assisted Language Learning 37 (9): 1—30. https://doi.org/10.1080/09588221.2024.2447279.
