The International Journal of Management Education 22 (2024) 101041
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect  
The International Journal of Management Education  
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/ijme  
Enhancing academic integrity among  students in GenAI Era:A  holistic  framework 
Tareq Rasul a, Sumesh Nair a, Diane Kalendra a, M.S. Balaji b,*, Fernando de Oliveira Santini c,d, Wagner Junior Ladeira c,d, Raouf Ahmad Rather e, 
Naveed Yasin f,j, Raul V. Rodriguez d, Panagiotis Kokkalis g, Md Wahid Murad h, Md Uzir Hossain i 
a Australian Institute of Business (AIB), Adelaide, Australia 
b Rennes School of Business, France 
c Universidade do Vale do Rio dos Sinos (UNISINOS), Porto Alegre, Brazil 
d School of Business, Woxsen University, Hyderabad, India 
e Scientific Researcher, Kashmir, India 
f Abu Dhabi School of Management, United Arab Emirates 
g Rochester Institute of Technology of Dubai, United Arab Emirates 
h University of South Australia, Australia 
i Putra Business School, Malaysia 
j University of Roehampton London, United Arab Emirates Campus   

A R T I C L E I N F O  
Keywords: Generative AI Academic integrity Higher education Students Stakeholders 
A B S T R A C T  
The  introduction of  Artificial  Intelligence  (AI),  specifically  Generative  AI (GenAI),  has  signifi- cantly  transformed  the  higher  education  landscape.  Despite  the  opportunities  GenAI  offers  to students,  they  pose  significant  challenges  for  academic  integrity.  Thus,  it  is crucial  for  higher education institutions (HEI) to balance the use of GenAI for enhancing the learning experience of students  with  its  ethical  and  responsible  use  in  their  educational  journey.  The  present  study proposes  a  comprehensive  academic  integrity  framework  focusing  on  three  key  stakeholders: students,  educators,  and  institutions.  We  propose  eight  strategies  ranging  from  collaborative learning for students to developing a comprehensive GenAI policy for institutions in maintaining academic  integrity  among  students  in  HEI. Furthermore, we  identified  four  challenges,  namely financial,  strategic,  operational, and  cultural,  in  the  implementing a  comprehensive academic integrity framework in the GenAI era. This study  offers significant  insights for HEI to  maintain academic integrity among students in the GenAI era.   

1. Introduction 
The introduction of Artificial Intelligence (AI) has significantly transformed the learning and teaching approaches in the higher 
* Corresponding author. 
E-mail  addresses:  tfrasul@gmail.com,  tareq.rasul@aib.edu.au  (T.  Rasul),  sumesh.nair@aib.edu.au  (S.  Nair),  diane.kalendra@aib.edu.au 
(D.  Kalendra),  balaji.makam@rennes-sb.com  (M.S.  Balaji),  fosantini@unisinos.br  (F.O.  Santini),  wjladeira@gmail.com  (W.J.  Ladeira),  r. raouf18@gmail.com  (R.A.  Rather),  Yasinresearch@gmail.com  (N.  Yasin),  vice.president@woxsen.edu.in  (R.V.  Rodriguez),  pxkcad@rit.edu (P. Kokkalis), Wahid.Murad@unisa.edu.au (M.W. Murad), hossainuzir@gmail.com (M.U. Hossain).  
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijme.2024.101041 
Received 21 March 2024; Received in revised form 2 August 2024; Accepted 7 August 2024   
Available online 14 August 2024
1472-8117/© 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.

T. Rasul et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                           The International Journal of Management Education 22 (2024) 101041
education context (Crompton & Burke, 2023; Zawacki-Richter et al., 2019). Particularly, the integration of AI tools and applications allowed  higher  education  institutions  (HEIs)  to  offer  a  personalized  learning  experience  for  students,  thereby  increasing  their engagement in  the  learning  process  (Wang  et  al.,  2021).  The  recent  emergence  of Generative  AI (GenAI)  has  resulted  in  further transformation  of  how  students  learn  and  acquire  knowledge.  GenAI  refers  to  computational  techniques  that  generate  new  and meaningful content in the form of text, images, videos, or audio from training data (Feuerriegel et al., 2024). Specifically, GenAI tools, 
such  as  ChatGPT,  Copilot,  and  Gemini,  stand  out,  as  they  are  interactive,  collaborative,  and  responsive  and  can  create  content instantly.  This  provides  significant  opportunities  for  students  to  enhance  their  learning,  develop  relevant  skills,  and  develop  an in-depth understanding of the subject matter (Yilmaz & Yilmaz, 2023). However, these benefits have come with significant disruptions 
in student assessments and pedagogical approaches (Fui-Hoon Nah et al., 2023). This has prompted HEIs and educators to explore approaches for the responsible use of the GenAI tools by students in their educational journey (Adıgüzel et al., 2023). 
The widespread adoption of GenAI tools by students has triggered intense debate in HEIs regarding its impact on student academic integrity and learning outcomes (Abdaljaleel et al., 2024). On the one hand, the capabilities of GenAI tools allow HEIs to personalize learning content, enhance research skills, and support self-learning for students. Furthermore, its interactive interface and real-time responses  facilitate  immersive  learning  experiences  and  help  students  understand better  complex  concepts  (Lim et  al.,  2023).  On the other hand, various concerns have been raised regarding the use of these tools. The authenticity of student work is questioned because of the ease with which these tools can create content and facilitate plagiarism (Cotton et al., 2024; Farrokhnia et al., 2023). Furthermore, despite knowing that using these tools for assessments constitutes cheating, the majority of US students persist in using GenAI tools for assessments (Lee et al., 2024). Another key challenge is that over-reliance on GenAI tools reduces attention, decreases memory storage, and declines critical thinking skills, which will have a negative impact on students’ intellectual development (Chan, 2023). These challenges highlight the need for HEIs to develop a comprehensive approach for the responsible and ethical use of GenAI tools by students in their learning process. Despite recent studies attempting to address this issue (Cotton et al., 2024; Liu et al., 2023; Roe  & Perkins,  2023),  there  is limited  research  proposing  a  comprehensive approach  for  maintaining academic  integrity  among students in the GenAI era. 
Given the potential of students to engage in academic dishonesty using GenAI tools, HEIs should go beyond the traditional ap- proaches for assessing their learning. Previous research has mostly focused on the ability of GenAI tools to complete specific assess- ments and the distinguishing features of human-written and AI-generated content (Herbold et al., 2023; Newton & Xiromeriti, 2023; Rasul et al., 2023). In response to this, HEIs implemented preventive measures for the use of GenAI tools in their academic programs. For example, several universities within the UK Russell Group have banned the use of GenAI tools for assessment purposes over fears of plagiarism (Wood, 2023). Similarly, universities globally are reviewing their plagiarism policies to address the concerns presented by GenAI tools in assessing student learning (Chan, 2023). As addressing the challenges of these tools pose to academic integrity is a multifaceted in nature, a more comprehensive and inclusive strategy involving key stakeholders, such as, students, educators, and the institution is necessary. By collaborating together, the stakeholders can create an environment that promotes academic honesty in HEIs, where students responsibly use GenAI tools in their learning process. 
The  present  study  proposes  a comprehensive stakeholder approach  for  maintaining academic  integrity  among  students  in  the GenAI era. We draw from literature on academic integrity and higher education policies and guidelines to propose eight strategies for maintaining  academic  integrity  among  students.  These  strategies  relate  to  the  three  stakeholders of  students,  educators,  and  in- stitutions, who play a critical role in maintaining academic integrity in HEIs (Khan, 2024; Kier & Ives, 2022). For students, we propose that emphasizing collaborative learning, enhancing critical thinking skills, and improving AI literacy to reduce the reliance on GenAI tools,. This approach promotes their responsible use in the learning process while maintaining the academic integrity in assessments. Educators can adopt innovative pedagogical and assessment approaches, such as project-based assessments, authentic assessments, adaptive learning, and participate in development programs to encourage authentic student learning and be updated on the recent developments in GenAI. Finally, institutions must develop technological infrastructure, have clear policies on the use of GenAI tools, and create a culture of academic integrity to discourage students from engaging in academic dishonesty practices during the assess- ments. Such a comprehensive strategy involving the key stakeholders in HEI can lead to shared commitment to integrity and facilitate development of academic integrity culture, thereby promoting responsible use of GenAI tools in their educational journey. 
Our paper is conceptual in nature and is based on the comprehensive relevant literature, including academic papers and institu - tional documents. This approach was chosen to provide an in-depth understanding of the multifaceted challenges and opportunities that GenAI tools present to academic integrity in HEIs. By incorporating key literature and real-world practices, we provide a holistic framework of academic integrity framework for students in the GenAI era. To the best of our knowledge, this is one of the initial studies to adopt a stakeholder approach to academic integrity, considering the perspectives from students, institutions, and educators. 
The rest of the article is structured as follows. We discuss the role of GenAI in HEI, academic integrity, assessment practices, and university  policies  in  the  following  sections.  Next,  we  forward  eight  strategies  concerning  the  three  stakeholders for  maintaining academic integrity. Finally, we conclude with the discussion, challenges, and directions for future research. 
2. Literature review 
2.1. GenAI in HEI 
GenAI represents  a new  paradigm  in the  Web 3.0  environment (Dwivedi  et  al.,  2023).  It is an  umbrella  term  used  to  describe machine learning solutions or models. GenAI is characterized by its ability to generate new and original data or content based on prompt commands (Sætra, 2023). Along with the ability to analyze and interpret existing information that previous generations of AI 
tools could do, GenAI can generate new data or content across various forms, including text, images, and audio. The key distinction lies in creating new content with higher efficiency and greater creativity that meets or even exceeds human output but at a fraction of the cost (Dwivedi et al., 2024; Epstein et al., 2023). The key component of GenAI is the Natural Language Processing (NLP) model that allows  it  to  understand, interpret, and  generate  content  from  the  training  data  (Sætra,  2023). NLP enables  GenAI tools  to  create meaningful,  natural,  and  personalized  content,  transforming  the  user  experience  into  a  more  dynamic  and  interactive  process (Chaisatitkul et al., 2024; Ooi et al., 2023). 
The introduction of GenAI tools has triggered considerable debate among stakeholders of HEIs. Advocates of GenAI tools argue that they can  transform the educational landscape by personalizing content for specific student needs, increasing accessibility to infor- mation and knowledge, and providing more interactive learning opportunities for students (Baidoo-Anu & Ansah, 2023). Furthermore, it shifts students from passive receivers of information to active participants in the learning process (Ratten & Jones, 2023). Addi- tionally, it can offer tailored responses to student queries on diverse topics in real-time, thereby enhancing their learning experience (Peres et al., 2023). It can help educators analyze student data and identify their distinct learning styles. This helps in personalizing the learning  content  and  experience.  Despite  these  benefits,  some  have  raised  alarm  bells  regarding  its  adverse  impact  on  students’ learning outcomes. The made-up data, biases, and hallucinations of GenAI tools impact the accuracy and authenticity of the infor- mation  that  students  use  in  their  learning  process  (Monteith  et  al.,  2024).  Additionally,  concerns  related  to  privacy,  intellectual property, and copyright have forced HEIs to critically investigate how GenAI tools impact students’ academic integrity (Adeshola & Adepoju, 2023). 
2.2. GenAI and academic integrity 
Maintaining academic integrity is the cornerstone of higher education (Sefcik et al., 2019). Student behaviors, such as plagiarism, dishonesty, fraud, and cheating, constitute violations of academic integrity (Jones, 2011). These violations hinder accurate assessment of students’ knowledge and abilities. It further questions the fairness of the educational process (Awosoga et al., 2021). Academic integrity is not confined to only student behaviors but also involves the conduct of the academic community that is responsible for implementing standards, promoting awareness, and fostering discussions on academic integrity (Caldwell, 2010). Moreover, it can develop a learning environment that values integrity and honesty (Bin-Nashwan et al., 2023). This indicates that academic integrity is a commitment to maintaining honesty, responsibility, and trust by all those involved in the HEIs, including students, educators, and the administration. However,  the  introduction of GenAI tools  has  resulted  in  significant  challenges  to  academic  integrity,  requiring  a comprehensive approach to uphold it. 
A few recent studies have investigated the relationship between GenAI tools and academic integrity of various stakeholders. For example, Bin-Nashwan et al. (2023) found a negative relationship between academic integrity and ChatCPT use among academicians in HEIs. Similarly, Cotton et al. (2024) discussed the potential risk of ChatGPT on academic integrity in academia. Along with these studies,  industry  report  reveal  that  approximately 46  percent  of US higher  education  students  frequently  use  GenAI tools  such  as ChatGPT for their homework (Intelligent, 2023). However, approximately 33 percent of students were not aware that these tools can generate false information (Freeman, 2024), and 40 percent of the students reported limited knowledge about the capabilities of GenAI tools (Kelly et al., 2023). While students may view GenAI tools as supportive tools or study companion (Li et al., 2024), they may intentionally or  unintentionally compromise  academic  integrity  by relying  on  them  in completing  the  assessments.  This  is further complicated by their lack of understanding of GenAI tools and the data or information it generates, leading to academic dishonesty. 
2.3. GenAI and assessment approaches 
Assessment encompasses testing, grading, and providing feedback, all designed to guide students toward improvement (Heywood, 2000). It can be either formative or summative, depending on its goals; however, both serve distinct purposes in evaluating students’ learning  outcomes  and  providing  feedback.  Formative  assessment  takes  place  throughout the  students’ learning  process.  It offers immediate feedback, which helps students and educators identify areas of improvement. Furthermore, it enables educators to modify the pedagogical approach to meet specific needs of the student (Taras, 2008). On the other hand, summative assessment is usually conducted at the end of the students’ learning process to assess the extent to which the learning outcomes are met. Together, formative and  summative  assessments  provide  a  comprehensive  view  of  student  learning  and  progress,  enabling  educators  to  tailor  the instructional approach and offer necessary support to facilitate students in their learning process (Hern´andez,  2012). 
It is therefore not enough to incorporate AI technologies into educational practices at large but rather to consider their specific approaches to assessment. The concept of Generative AI could change over time, as it might place less emphasis on assessment. At the same time, it is critical for educators not to lose sight of important issues and possibilities that AI contributes to the assessment of students’ learning. What is important is being able to guarantee that assessments are still valid, fair, and able to determine the extent of the students’ knowledge without the help of AI-generated support. 
With the rise of GenAI, assessment approaches have become a crucial priority for educators. These assessments should be designed to encourage students to engage in original work and not submit AI-generated content. Specifically, HEIs should develop a learning environment where students are motivated to use their own skills and capabilities in completing their assessments rather than relying on shortcuts such as GenAI tools. Recent research has investigated the assessment approaches of HEIs in the GenAI era. For example, Moorhouse et al. (2023) reviewed Generative AI guidelines on the websites of 23 leading universities. Their findings revealed three main areas of focus: academic integrity, advice on assessment design, and communication with students. The authors recommended that educators should develop effective assessment tasks, assess the extent to which GenAI tools can complete them, and educate and allow students to properly use GenAI in completing the assessments. Similarly, Thanh et al. (2023) employed Bloom’s taxonomy to develop a framework that enables educators to evaluate the effectiveness of GenAI tools in student assessments. They proposed that educators should develop assessment questions based on Bloom’s taxonomy and design marking rubrics and guidelines accordingly. They should then input assessment questions and marking rubrics into GenAI tools, check the answers with marking guidelines, and then grade the answers. This would enable educators to better understand GenAI capabilities and evaluate student assessments more effectively. The above studies provide an initial understanding of approaches adopted by educators and HEIs in assessing students’ learning in the context of GenAI tools. 
2.4. HEI policies and guidelines on the use of GenAI tools 
The potential risks of academic dishonesty has let to HEIs develop policies regarding the use of GenAI tools by various stakeholders (Luo, 2024). While many HEIs have published AI-related guidelines, they have not considered the scope of impact of GenAI tools on student learning. For example, Plata et al. (2023) investigated how top 20 global universities approached the role of GenAI tools on academic integrity and student learning. Their study identified three approaches, namely, education, enforcement, and encourage - ment, for dealing with the risk of GenAI tools on academic integrity. Australia’s The Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency (TEQSA) established two foundational principles to guide the creation of assessments in the context of GenAI (TEQSA, 2023). The first principle states that assessments and learning experiences should prepare students to engage actively and ethically in a society where GenAI is widely used. The second principle emphasizes making reliable judgments about student learning in the GenAI era requires inclusive, contextualized, and diverse assessment methods (TEQSA, 2023). 
Monash  University  in  Australia  articulated  a  cautious  stand  toward  the  integration  of  GenAI tools  in  student  submissions.  It advocated for the responsible use of GenAI tools by students in their assessments while emphasizing the need to acknowledge their use (Monash  University,  n.d.).  Similarly,  Harvard  University  advocated  a  judicious  use  of GenAI,  highlighting the  criticality  of safe- guarding information security, data privacy, compliance, copyright, and academic integrity (Harvard University, n.d.). Oxford Uni- versity echoed a similar sentiment, advocating responsible use of GenAI tools by both faculty and students in their academic pursuits. Additionally, it emphasized to stakeholders that GenAI is not an expedient solution or alternative for the personal commitment needed to foster intellectual aptitude of students (University of Oxford, n.d.). While these policies and guidelines offer critical insights into how HEIs are dealing with GenAI, they do not offer a comprehensive or inclusive approach for managing academic integrity. Luo (2024) states that most policies of HEIs revolved around ‘what works’ but they do not focus on the effectiveness of such policies in maintaining academic integrity. 
3. A stakeholder approach to maintaining academic integrity in the GenAI era 
This study adopted a stakeholder approach to propose a comprehensive academic integrity framework in HEIs. Given the com- plexities  and multifaceted nature  of maintaining academic integrity, our approach  highlights the need  to engage all critical stake - holders in the HEIs. Such an approach can foster an environment for ethical and responsible use of GenAI tools among students and allows accurate assessment of their learning. We developed our framework based on an extensive review of relevant literature and institutional documents detailing policies and guidelines. 
We identify eight strategies (Fig. 1): three focused on students, namely, Collaborative Learning, Enhancing Critical Thinking Skills, and Developing AI Literacy; two focused on educators, namely, Innovative Pedagogical and Assessment Approaches, and Educator Development  Programs;  and  three  focused  on  institutions, namely,  Investing  in Technological  Infrastructure, Developing  Compre - hensive GenAI Policies, and Fostering a Culture of Academic Integrity. To implement these strategies, we present ten propositions focusing on enhancing collaborative learning, critical thinking, and AI literacy for students; adopting adaptive, authentic, and project- 

Fig. 1. Stakeholder approach to academic integrity.  
based assessments; providing educator training; investing in technological infrastructure; developing comprehensive GenAI policies; and fostering a culture of academic integrity. Along with this, we identify four distinct challenges for implementing the comprehensive academic integrity framework, namely, Strategic Challenges, Operational Challenges, Cultural Challenges and Financial Challenges. We considered the five academic integrity values of honesty, trust, fairness, respect, and responsibility when developing this frame - work (International Center for Academic Integrity, 2021). These values are integral to fostering academic honesty among stakeholders and encourage students to responsibly use GenAI tools in their learning process. In the following sections, we discuss these strategies and describe the process by which they contribute to maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. 
4. Empowering students for integrity 
Students are key stakeholders in HEI for maintaining academic integrity. Specifically, they have a critical role in promoting ethical standards with their academic work and scholarly pursuits. Given this, we propose three strategies namely, engaging in collaborative learning, enhancing critical thinking skills, and developing AI literacy that are essential for upholding academic integrity and honesty among students. 
4.1. Collaborative learning 
Collaborative learning is an educational approach  that  encourages  students to work  together  on tasks or  assessments toward  a common goal (Vuopala et al., 2016). It is grounded in the sociocultural theory, which suggests that social interaction plays a key role in the cognitive development of students (Hmelo-Silver et al., 2008). Collaborative learning emphasizes social aspects where students can support  one  another  in the  learning  process,  thereby  achieving  a higher  level  of understanding through  collaborative interactions among students. Previous research has demonstrated that collaborative learning creates a sense of belongingness, enhances diversity, and  prepares  students  for  the  challenges  of the  real  world  (Seifert  & Bar-Tal,  2023).  Furthermore,  researchers have  shown  that collaborative learning increases student performance and learning satisfaction (Cen et al., 2016; Cheng et al., 2021). As collaborative learning creates a dynamic social environment where students work together, they not only share knowledge but also challenge each other’s assumptions and understanding, leading to an in-depth understanding of the subject matter (Dewiyanti et al., 2007). 
We propose  that  engaging  in  collaborative learning  helps  maintain  academic  integrity  among  students.  Collaborative  learning promotes core values of academic integrity, such as transparency, responsibility, and fairness, by making students aware that their contributions are  subject  to  peer  review  and  collective  scrutiny  (Kotsonis,  2022).  It also  nurtures  a culture  of honesty  and  shared accountability. Such shared responsibility enable students to recognize that their contributions are pivotal for the overall success of the group. By collaborating together, students can leverage the strength and perspectives of others in the group (Chauhan et al., 2018). By encouraging shared responsibility and trust among group members, collaborative learning approach plays a key role in maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. For example, Stanford University promotes a collaborative environment to make students actively involved and engaged in their learning process (Standard Graduate School of Business, n.d.).  Similarly, The Uni- versity of Melbourne’s Peer Assisted Study Sessions aims to maximize student engagement and develop a sense of community (The University of Melbourne, n.d.). The above discussion suggests that promoting collaborative learning among students, HEI can promote academic honesty among students in the GenAI era. 
Proposition 1. Collaborative learning strategies are crucial to maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. 
4.2. Enhancing critical thinking skills 
Critical thinking is a key learning outcome for students in HEIs. It is critical for the overall development and academic success of students (Stupnisky et al., 2008). Critical thinking skills involve the ability of the students to think rationally and critically and make informed decisions (Walters, 1990). These skills helps students differentiate facts from opinions, evaluate arguments and evidence, establish logical connections, and systematically solve problems (Tiruneh et al., 2014). Thus, enhancing critical thinking skills prepare students to manage complex problems and engage in lifelong learning. 
In the GenAI era, enhancing critical thinking skills in students is even more significant for maintaining academic integrity. As GenAI tools  can  hallucinate and  create  inaccurate  or  incomplete output,  students  should  possess  critical  thinking  skills  to  evaluate  the reliability of content or information generated by GenAI tools. This ensures that students responsibly use GenAI tools in their learning process. For example, the University of Bath recently introduced a new module that focuses on building students’ critical thinking skills 
and confidence in using GenAI tools (University of Bath, 2023). Similarly, the University of Technology Sydney offers various GenAI learning resources aimed at enhancing the students’  critical thinking skills (UTS, n.d.). The above discussion indicates that critical thinking is the key to unlocking the potential of GenAI for student learning. It can transform GenAI from mere technological tools to powerful learning aids. 
Proposition 2. Enhancing critical thinking skills is crucial for maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. 
4.3. Training and supporting students in developing AI literacy 
Developing AI literacy in students is becoming increasingly crucial in today’s context. It is the ability of students to efficiently use AI tools and have a deeper understanding of their applications, biases, and limitations (Kong et al., 2023). By developing AI-literacy, HEI can  empower  students  to  responsibly  use  GenAI in  their  learning  process.  Kong et  al.  (2021)  proposed  an  AI literacy  framework consisting of three dimensions, namely, cognitive, affective, and sociocultural. The cognitive dimension relates to educating students about the basics of AI and developing their competencies. The affective dimension relates to their empowerment, while the socio- cultural aspects concerns their awareness of ethical considerations in using AI in their learning process. Similarly, Southworth et al. (2023) proposed a model of AI literacy that encompasses enabling AI, knowing and understanding AI, using and applying AI, eval- uating  and  creating  AI, and  AI ethics  dimensions.  The  authors  propose  that  AI literacy  programs  should  be  aligned  with  student learning outcomes, as it can foster more engaged students and transform them into digital citizens. Furthermore, it results in higher levels of AI self-efficacy, awareness, and empowerment (Kong et al., 2023). 
In the present study, we propose that enhancing AI literacy in students are pivotal for maintaining academic integrity. Al literacy provides a comprehensive understanding of AI tools and their ethical use. By increasing the technical competence of GenAI tools, it enable students to distinguish between responsible and unethical use of GenAI in their assessments. For example, The University of Sydney offers its students various resources to help them upskill in their use of GenAI tools (Liu & Bridgeman, 2023). RMIT University recently  launched  a module  for  students  across  different  disciplines,  focusing  on  the  university  policies,  guidelines,  and  resources related to GenAI and academic integrity (RMIT, 2024). Similarly, Nanjing University launched an AI general curriculum that covers the knowledge, skills, values, and ethics of AI use, aiming to enhance AI literacy among students (Global Times, 2024). Thus, enhancing AI literacy ensures that students are technically proficient and ethically grounded in their use of GenAI tools in their learning process. 
Proposition 3. AI literacy programs are crucial for maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. 
5. Equipping educators for academic integrity 
Along with students, this study identifies educators as another key stakeholder in maintaining academic integrity among students in the  GenAI era. Recognizing  the critical  role educators  play in maintaining a learning-centric environment, we  propose  two  key strategies for maintaining academic integrity among students. The first strategy focuses on adoption of innovative pedagogical and assessment  approaches  that  discourages  academic  dishonesty.  The  second  approach  emphasizes  the  importance of comprehensive educational training programs to ensure educators possess necessary skills for creating a culture of honesty and ethical behaviors. 
5.1. Innovative pedagogical and assessment approaches 
In this section, we  focus on three innovative pedagogical (adaptive learning)  and assessment (authentic and project-based) ap- proaches for promoting academic honesty among students in the GenAI era. While other approaches exist, we selected these three approaches due to their ability to make students adopt academic integrity values in their learning process. 
5.1.1. Adaptive learning 
Adaptive learning is an emerging technological innovation in the higher education context (Smyrnova-Trybulska et al., 2022). It utilizes technologies to create interactive content that dynamically changes based on students’ understanding and knowledge (Kerr, 2016). It uses integrated assessments to tailor learning materials and contribute to unique learning experiences for each student. The personalized approach  and  the  feedback  system  promotes  self-paced  learning  and  increases  students’  confidence  and  engagement (Contrino et al., 2024). HEIs have adopted various platforms such as McGraw Hill’s ALEKS, Alta’s Knewton, and Pearson Interactive Labs to promote adaptive learning among students. This study proposes adaptive learning approaches or platforms enhance students’ learning efficiency through personalized learning process that aligns with their individual learning styles. These approach increase student  engagement  by  encouraging  them  to  use  their  own  abilities  and  competencies.  Furthermore,  they  increase  students’ self-efficacy and foster  a sense of ownership  and commitment, thereby  ensuring that they  are less likely to engage  in unethical or dishonesty practices (Martin et al., 2020). 
Proposition 4. Adopting adaptive learning platforms is crucial for maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. 
5.1.2. Authentic assessments 
Authentic assessments allow  educators to fairly assess the  skills and knowledge  of students in their  learning process.  These  as- sessments, such as case studies, simulations, and experiential learning activities, evaluate student learning and knowledge through tasks and activities that are based on real-world situations and scenarios (Hobbins et al., 2022). By simulating real-world situations, these assessments motivate students to apply their actual understanding and knowledge in a more practical and meaningful way. This approach increases students’ critical thinking and problem-solving skills (Swaffield, 2011). They bridge the gap between theory and practice and help better prepare students to face modern business world challenges. Given the unique and contextual nature of these assessments, students have to deeply engage with the assessment material. Such engagement shifts students from passive receivers of information to actively constructing knowledge. As GenAI tools may not offer specific solutions for the real-world problem emphasized in the  authentic  assessments  (Burtsev  et  al., 2023),  students  are  compelled  to  either  avoid  them  or  augment  them  with  their  own insights and knowledge. Thus, authentic assessments may help maintain academic integrity through genuine student efforts as well as critical  application  of  GenAI  tools.  For  example,  Maynooth  University  promotes  authentic  assessment  in  its  programs  and  even designed a six-step task generator for creating authentic assessments (Maynooth University, n.d.). 
Proposition 5. Utilizing authentic assessments is crucial for maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. 
5.1.3. Project-based assessments 
Another innovative assessment approach educators can utilize to promote academic integrity among students in the GenAI era is project-based assessments. This approach involves students working on a long-term project requiring them to apply their knowledge and  skills  to  address  real-world  problems.  The  students  are  required  to  ask  questions,  collect  information and  data,  analyze  and interpret findings, and draw conclusions (Tal et al., 2000). Thus, project-based assessments simulate real-world business problems and integrate both theory and practice (Van den Bergh et al., 2006). However, they often involve an industry partner and usually span a longer duration of time whether its outcomes are implemented outside the classroom. 
We propose that by using project-based assessments, educators can play a key role in enhancing academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. This is because project-based assessments require students to partner with external parties and make decisions based on real-world problems (Rohm et al., 2021). As GenAI tools may not fully understand the nuances and complexities of the specific problems  or  challenges  faced  by businesses,  their  utility  may  be  limited  (Burtsev  et  al.,  2023).  While  GenAI tools  can  create  new content based on existing data, it lacks the ability to address novel and specific requirements set by external partners in project-based assessments (Rahman & Watanobe, 2023). This makes students rely on their critical thinking, creativity, and problem-solving skills, thereby  promoting  academic  honesty  practices  among  students  in  project-based assessments.  For  example,  Maastricht  University incorporates problem-based learning across its programs to tackle real-life challenges (Maastricht University, n.d.). 
Proposition 6. Employing project-based assessments is crucial for maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. 
5.2. Educator Development Programs 
Effective development programs are critical for preparing educators to address the challenges GenAI poses to academic integrity. These personal and professional development programs equip educators with relevant skills and competencies to successfully guide students  in their  learning process  (Centra,  1978).  Educator  development programs  provide  up-to-date  knowledge  on  teaching  and learning innovations, effective assessment strategies, and digital literacy (Camblin Jr & Steger, 2000). These workshops also focus on enhancing  facilitation  skills,  such  as  guiding  discussions,  managing  group  dynamics,  fostering  collaboration,  and  fostering  a student-centric learning environment (Chiu, 2023). Additionally, they promote a growth mindset in educators which enable them to adopt efficient pedagogical approaches for improving student learning (Lin et al., 2022). Specifically, digital literacy programs prepare educators  to  use  GenAI  tools  effectively,  critically  evaluate  AI-generated  content,  and  develop  strategies  for  instilling  academic integrity among students. Thus, educational development programs develop competencies to reshape the pedagogical approach of educators. By offering continuous development programs, HEIs can empower educators with the necessary skills and knowledge to address the challenges of GenAI tools in maintaining academic integrity among students in their classrooms. 
Proposition 7. Educator development programs are crucial for maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. 
6. Institutional foundations for integrity 
This paper delineates three pivotal institutional strategies for maintaining academic integrity among students: the development of a technological infrastructure, implementing a comprehensive GenAI policy,  and  cultivating  a culture  of academic  integrity.  These strategies are essential for fostering an environment where academic honesty practices are encouraged among various stakeholders including students. 
6.1. Technological infrastructure 
Technological infrastructure encompass the set of digital technologies, tools, and applications deployed in HEIs to facilitate and support  the  educational  and  administrational  processes  for  student,  educators,  and  other  stakeholders  (Blind  &  Grupp,  1999; Rodríguez-Abitia et al., 2020). Technological infrastructure includes learning management systems, digital libraries, online collabo -
ration  platforms,  and  research-related software  (Schneckenberg, 2009).  It also  covers  the  necessary  hardware and  network  infra- structure that allows seamless access to digital resources. These technological infrastructure enhances student learning experience, 
manage operational processes, and foster a community within the academic environment. Previous research has demonstrated that technological infrastructure improves  the  quality  of educational programs  and  enhances  student  engagement (Engel  et  al.,  2023; Schindler et al., 2017). 
It is noteworthy, however, that some technological tools are somewhat ineffective in identifying the improper utilization of AI. Some institutions have decided not to implement AI detection tools yet due to issues of efficiency and surveillance. For these reasons, a much more sensible approach to the management of cheating must be planned using supervised technologies accompanied by human oversight and ethics to ensure the fairness and integrity of evaluations. 
We propose  that  HEIs should  invest  in  advanced  tools  and  platforms  that  facilitate  the  detection  and  prevention of dishonest practices among students. Plagiarism and AI-detection software enables students to present genuine work and helps to maintain ac- ademic integrity. Furthermore, it encourages the development of critical thinking and problem-solving skills. It also prepares students for a future where they can responsibly and ethically use GenAI tools in their ongoing studies. Thus, technological infrastructure forms the foundation of an environment in which students’ academic integrity is not compromised. 
Proposition 8. Investing in advanced technological infrastructure is crucial for maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI 
era. 
6.2. Comprehensive GenAI policy development and review 
Implementing a comprehensive AI policy for responsible use of GenAI tools is critical for maintaining academic integrity among students in HEI. This comprehensive policy should include regulations for the use of GenAI tools, clearly communicating the roles and responsibilities of various stakeholders for its responsible use, and outline procedures for detecting academic dishonesty and penalties and  sanctions  for  their  use,  among  others.  For  example,  Aalto  University’s  recent  academic  integrity  policy  introduced  detailed guidelines for the responsible use of AI tools for students and other stakeholders (Aalto University, 2023). Similarly, the new integrity policy introduced by The University of Sydney offers detailed guidelines for AI use by students in assessable work and outlines the consequences of academic dishonesty (The University of Sydney, 2023). While these examples reveal proactive steps taken by HEI, Luo (2024) criticized current AI policies in various universities for its lack of comprehensiveness and recommends implementing specific guidelines for use of GenAI tools without limiting its use for enhancing student learning. Chan (2023) proposed a comprehensive GenAI policy that includes guidelines for the pedagogical and ethical use of AI tools for maintaining academic integrity. Additionally, the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has issued guidelines advocating the regulation of GenAI in education through human-centric approaches that prioritize its ethical, safe, equitable, and meaningful use (UNESCO, 2023). As GenAI continues to evolve, HEI should develop a comprehensive policy and regularly review it to ensure it remains relevant. 
Proposition 9. A dynamic approach to comprehensive AI policy development and review is crucial for maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. 
6.3. Culture of academic integrity 
We propose that fostering a culture of academic integrity in HEIs is essential to imparting fundamental values such as honesty, integrity, trust, fairness, respect, responsibility, and courage. It also empowers students to achieve success and bring about positive change in communities (Çelik & Razı, 2023). McCabe et al. (2012, p. 3) viewed academic integrity as “a harbinger of things to come, a reflection of the general mores that society is passing on to the next generation.”  Thus, fostering a culture of academic integrity is critical as academic dishonesty is a common, contagious, and corrosive epidemic (Çelik & Razı, 2023). Various scholars have proposed models  or  frameworks  for  creating  a  culture  of  academic  integrity.  For  example,  Wangaard  and  Stephens  (2011)  proposed  a four-dimension model comprising core values, committee and commitments, culture and community, and curriculum and instruction for promoting academic integrity at both school and classroom levels. Similarly, Hossain (2022) proposed a 4P academic integrity model encompassing people, policy, preparation, and practice. 
It is essential to  note  that  this culture  of academic  integrity  is not fixed but  needs  to  be dynamic, considering  the character  of technology.  Just  as  the  arrival  of the  Internet  more  than  twenty  years  ago  sparked  a reconsideration of the  concept  of academic integrity, the application of Generative AI tools should trigger a critical look at the definition of integrity today. Organizations need to 
not only maintain their culture of integrity culture but reshape it to respond to new the threats and opportunities presented by AI in all subjects. 
Recent studies investigating the implementation of an academic integrity culture indicate that it is a slow and challenging process that requires the active participation of all key stakeholders (Stephens & Wangaard, 2016). They also identified various barriers to developing such a culture, including a lack of response to academic dishonesty incidents, prioritizing academic success over integrity, resistance from educators to change, and traditional assessment approaches such as exams (Çelik & Razı, 2023). Despite these chal- lenges, developing a culture of academic integrity is critical, as GenAI tools can undermine the core values of academic honesty (Duah & McGivern, 2024). Thus, we propose that cultivating a culture of academic integrity ensures that students use GenAI tools responsibly and ethically, ensuring trust, fairness, and transparency in their assessments. 
Proposition 10. Developing a culture of academic integrity is crucial for maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. 
Each strategy proposed for key stakeholders is an essential part of the comprehensive approach to maintaining academic integrity among students in the GenAI era. While each individual strategy is a valuable tool, their combined implementation, impacting all key stakeholders, is crucial for overall success in promoting students’ responsible use of GenAI in their learning process. 
7. Discussion 
GenAI presents significant opportunities and challenges for students and other stakeholders in HEIs. While it can enhance student learning and engagement through personalized and interactive content, it also raises concerns about academic dishonesty. Given that GenAI tools are evolving, it is crucial for HEIs to develop comprehensive strategies that address the challenges they pose to academic integrity  while  leveraging  them  for  enhancing  their  learning  process.  This  study  presents  a  comprehensive  academic  integrity framework that encompasses eight strategies related to three key stakeholders of students, educators, and institutions. This framework emphasizes collaborative learning, critical thinking, and AI literacy for students, innovative pedagogical and assessment approaches and development programs for educators, and developing comprehensive AI policy and review, culture of academic integrity, and technological infrastructure for institutions (Fig. 2). The proposed framework offers a foundational approach for HEIs to proactively engage with multiple stakeholders to maintain academic integrity among students and ensures that education remains a process that genuinely reflects students’ learning involving the ethical use of GenAI tools. However, it is important to note that implementing such a 
comprehensive framework is not without its challenges. 
7.1. Challenges for academic integrity framework 
Implementing the proposed comprehensive academic integrity framework presents significant challenges for HEIs. Recognizing these  challenges  will  help  them  better  prepare  for  its  effective  implementation. We identified  four  key  challenges,  i.e.,  financial, operational, strategic,  and  cultural  challenges,  each  presenting  a distinct  barrier  that  requires  careful  consideration and  planning (Fig. 3).  
(1) Strategic  challenges:  Achieving  consensus  among  all  stakeholders on  the  responsible  and  ethical  use  of GenAI tools  can  be challenging (Duah & McGivern, 2024). Additionally, aligning these strategies with HEIs goals and objectives present significant hurdles. HEIs may also face resistance from various stakeholders demanding their involvement in the policy-making process. 
(2) Operational challenges: Keeping pace with the rapid development of AI tools, including GenAI, requires continuous develop - ment and revision of the HEIs policies, pedagogical approaches, and assessment methods. Moreover, increasing AI literacy and equitable access to GenAI resources involve significant operational and support considerations (Chiu, 2023).  
(3) Cultural challenges: Creating a culture of academic integrity not only relates to developing policy and training but also changing the mindset of student to value honesty, fairness, and ethics in their learning process.  
(4) Financial challenges: Significant financial investments are required to invest in the appropriate technological infrastructure to support responsible use of GenAI tools by students in their learning process (Perkins et al., 2023). Furthermore, designing and offering development and training programs for students and educators involves substantial costs. 
7.2. Future research directions 
As the  GenAI landscape  continues  to  evolve,  it  is  important  for  HEIs to  identify  the  future  directions  for  understanding  and addressing both its opportunities and challenges. We identified four key future research directions. 
First, HEI could assess the current levels of AI and GenAI literacy among students and educators. These insights would enable HEI to tailor policies and guidelines to meet specific needs that foster the responsible use of GenAI among students. HEIs can adopt AI literacy scales  developed  by  Laupichler  et  al.  (2023)  or  Carolus  et  al.  (2023)  to  measure  GenAI literacy  levels.  This  ensures  an  accurate assessment of current levels of GenAI among various stakeholders when developing the academic integrity policy. 
Second, HEI could assess the impact of GenAI tools on student learning outcomes. This includes examining whether GenAI enhance problem-solving, critical thinking, creativity, and decision-making skills. While previous research has shown that GenAI tools increase productivity by 14% and reduce task completion time by 40% among workers (Brynjolfsson et al., 2023; Noy & Zhang, 2023), limited research has examined their impact on student competences and skills. 
Third, HEI should investigate the role of technological infrastructure in maintaining academic integrity among students. Specif- ically, future research could focus on identifying relevant and effective tools and platforms for preventing academic dishonesty among students.  Similarly,  future  research  could  carry  out  longitudinal  studies  examining  the  long-term  impact  of  GenAI  on  academic integrity. 
Finally,  future  research  should  investigate  how  different  pedagogical  and  assessment  approaches  impact  students’ academic 

Fig. 2. Academic Integrity Framework in the GenAI era.  

Fig. 3. Challenges for implementing the GenAI Academic Integrity Framework.  
integrity.  While  previous  research  has  demonstrated  the  effectiveness  of authentic assessments  and  project-based  assessments  in reinforcing  student  learning,  future  research  should  examine  how  they  promote  ethical  behaviors  and  maintains  fairness  among students. 
8. Conclusion 
The study presents a comprehensive framework for academic integrity, targeting the key stakeholders in HEIs: students, educators, and  institutions. Specifically,  it  outlines  eight  key  strategies,  from  fostering  collaborative learning  among  students  to  developing comprehensive GenAI policy at the institutional level. By adopting this framework, HEIs can effectively address the challenges GenAI 
poses  to  academic  integrity  among  students.  However,  further  research  is needed  to  develop  a deeper  understanding of how  this framework can be implemented effectively across diverse educational contexts and cultures. 
It is also acknowledged that the impact of GenAI in higher education is changing dynamically. This has made it further difficult to determine the long-term policies. Thus, our paper proposes for the development of dynamic policy to regulate these issues owing to their uncertainty. We understand that such opportunities as, for example, the use of GenAI tools leads to hallucination in the future, may be minimized, and there may be other concerns. Therefore, the proposed framework provides an opportunity for the constant tracking and updating of the existing interventions as a means of preserving their efficacy. It will also help HEIs in ensuring that it is ready for the new future changes and trends in GenAI as the institution upholds its academic integrity. 
In  addition,  it  is important to  note  that  there  is a  clear  need  to  relate  the  assessment  strategies  with  reference  to  the  GenAI. Authentic and project-based assessments both have been considered as best practices and their significance has increased due to the emergence of GenAI tools. These methods reduce the possibilities of misuse of AI by enforcing the need for more personal interactions with the AI. Thus, GenAI tools support the effectiveness of these strategies and encourages educators to think beyond traditional exams and written assignments. In response to the possible change of moving back to invigilated exams, our framework suggest the designing of assessments that are more suited to GenAI but at the same time uphold academic integrity through critical thinking. 
Declaration of AI-assisted technology in the writing process 
During the preparation of this work, the authors used Grammarly, a language editing software, for language suggestions and copy- editing  assistance  in  some  parts  of this  article.  After  using  this  tool,  the  authors  reviewed  the  content  as needed  and  take  full  re- sponsibility for the content of the publication. 
Funding 
None. 
CRediT authorship contribution statement 
Tareq Rasul: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization, Supervision, Project administration, Conceptu - alization.  Sumesh  Nair:  Writing  – review  & editing,  Writing  – original  draft,  Visualization, Supervision,  Project  administration, Conceptualization.  Diane  Kalendra:  Writing  –  review  &  editing,  Writing  –  original  draft,  Visualization,  Supervision,  Project administration, Conceptualization. M.S. Balaji: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization, Supervision, Project 
administration, Conceptualization. Fernando de Oliveira Santini: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization, Conceptualization. Wagner Junior Ladeira: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization, Conceptualization. Raouf Ahmad Rather: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Conceptualization. Naveed Yasin: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization, Conceptualization. Raul V. Rodriguez: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft,  Visualization,  Conceptualization. Panagiotis Kokkalis:  Writing  – review  & editing,  Writing  – original  draft,  Visualization, Conceptualization. Md Wahid Murad: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Conceptualization. Md Uzir Hossain: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization, Conceptualization. 
Data availability 
No data was used for the research described in the article. 
Acknowledgments 
None. 
References 
Aalto University. (2023). Guidance for the use of artificial intelligence in teaching and learning at Aalto University. https://www.aalto.fi/en/services/guidance-for- 
the-use-of-artificial-intelligence-in-teaching-and-learning-at-aalto-university. 
Abdaljaleel, M., Barakat, M., Alsanafi, M., Salim, N. A., Abazid, H., Malaeb, D., Mohammed, A. H., Hassan, B. A. R., Wayyes, A. M., Farhan, S. S., El Khatib, S., 
Rahal, M., Sahban, A., Abdelaziz, D. H., Mansour, N. O., AlZayer, R., Khalil, R., Fekih-Romdhane, F., Hallit, R., … Sallam, M. (2024). A multinational study on the 
factors influencing university students’ attitudes and usage of ChatGPT. Scientific Reports, 14(1), 1983. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-52549-8 Adeshola, I., & Adepoju, A. P. (2023). The opportunities and challenges of ChatGPT in education. Interactive Learning Environments, 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 
10494820.2023.2253858 
Adıgüzel, T., Kaya, M. H., & Cansu, F. K. (2023). Revolutionizing education with AI: Exploring the transformative potential of ChatGPT. Contemporary Educational 
Technology, 15(3). https://doi.org/10.30935/cedtech/13152 
Awosoga, O., Nord, C. M., Varsanyi, S., Barley, R., & Meadows, J. (2021). Student and faculty perceptions of, and experiences with, academic dishonesty at a medium- 
sized Canadian university. International Journal for Educational Integrity, 17, 1–26. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40979-021-00090-w 
Baidoo-Anu, D., & Ansah, L. O. (2023). Education in the era of generative artificial intelligence (AI): Understanding the potential benefits of ChatGPT in promoting 
teaching and learning. Journal of AIDS, 7(1), 52–62. https://doi.org/10.61969/jai.1337500 
Bin-Nashwan, S. A., Sadallah, M., & Bouteraa, M. (2023). Use of ChatGPT in academia: Academic integrity hangs in the balance. Technology in Society, 75, Article 
102370. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techsoc.2023.102370 
Blind, K., & Grupp, H. (1999). Interdependencies between the science and technology infrastructure and innovation activities in German regions: Empirical findings 
and policy consequences. Research Policy, 28(5), 451–468. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0048-7333(99)00007-4 
Brynjolfsson, E., Li, D., & Raymond, L. R. (2023). Generative AI at work (report No. 31161). National Bureau of Economic Research. https://doi.org/10.3386/w31161 Burtsev, M., Reeves, M., & Job, A. (2023). The working limitations of large language models. MIT Sloan Management Review, 65(2), 8–10. 
Caldwell, C. (2010). A ten-step model for academic integrity: A positive approach for business schools. Journal of Business Ethics, 92, 1–13. https://doi.org/10.1007/ 
s10551-009-0144-7 
Camblin Jr, L. D., & Steger, J. A. (2000). Rethinking faculty development. Higher Education, 39(1), 1–18. https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1003827925543 
Carolus, A., Koch, M. J., Straka, S., Latoschik, M. E., & Wienrich, C. (2023). MAILS-Meta AI literacy scale: Development and testing of an AI literacy questionnaire based on well-founded competency models and psychological change-and meta-competencies. Computers in Human Behavior: Artificial Humans, 1(2), Article 
100014. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chbah.2023.100014 
Çelik, O., ¨ & Razı, S. (2023). Facilitators and barriers to creating a culture of academic integrity at secondary schools: An exploratory case study. International Journal 
for Educational Integrity, 19(1), 4. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40979-023-00125-4 
Cen, L., Ruta, D., Powell, L., Hirsch, B., & Ng, J. (2016). Quantitative approach to collaborative learning: Performance prediction, individual assessment, and group 
composition. International Journal of Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning, 11, 187–225. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11412-016-9234-6 
Centra, J. A. (1978). Types of faculty development programs. The Journal of Higher Education, 49(2), 151–162. https://doi.org/10.1080/00221546.1978.11776610 Chaisatitkul, A., Luangngamkhum, K., Noulpum, K., & Kerdvibulvech, C. (2024). The power of AI in marketing: Enhancing efficiency and improving customer 
perception through AI-generated storyboards. International Journal of Information Technology, 16(1), 137–144. https://doi.org/10.1007/s41870-023-01661-5 
Chan, C. K. Y. (2023). A comprehensive AI policy education framework for university teaching and learning. International Journal of Educational Technology in Higher 
Education, 20(1), 38. https://doi.org/10.1186/s41239-023-00408-3 
Chauhan, P. K., Wood, E., Plummer, T., & Forsyth, G. (2018). Peer-based interventions on academic integrity: Assessing immediate and long term learning. Journal of 
Academic Ethics, 16, 133–149. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10805-017-9296-8 
Cheng, F. F., Wu, C. S., & Su, P. C. (2021). The impact of collaborative learning and personality on satisfaction in innovative teaching context. Frontiers in Psychology, 
12, Article 713497. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2021.713497 
Chiu, T. K. (2023). The impact of generative AI (GenAI) on practices, policies and research direction in education: A case of ChatGPT and midjourney. Interactive 
Learning Environments, 1–17. https://doi.org/10.1080/10494820.2023.2253861 
Contrino, M. F., Reyes-Mill´an,  M., V´azquez-Villegas, P., & Membrillo-Hern´andez,  J. (2024). Using an adaptive learning tool to improve student performance and 
satisfaction in online and face-to-face education for a more personalized approach. Smart Learning Environments, 11(1), 6. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40561-024- 00292-y 
Cotton, D. R., Cotton, P. A., & Shipway, J. R. (2024). Chatting and cheating: Ensuring academic integrity in the era of ChatGPT. Innovations in Education & Teaching 
International, 61(2), 228–239. https://doi.org/10.1080/14703297.2023.2190148 
Crompton, H., & Burke, D. (2023). Artificial intelligence in higher education: The state of the field. International Journal of Educational Technology in Higher Education, 
20(1), 22. https://doi.org/10.1186/s41239-023-00392-8 
Dewiyanti, S., Brand-Gruwel, S., Jochems, W., & Broers, N. J. (2007). Students’ experiences with collaborative learning in asynchronous computer-supported 
collaborative learning environments. Computers in Human Behavior, 23(1), 496–514. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2004.10.021 
Duah, J. E., & McGivern, P. (2024). How generative artificial intelligence has blurred notions of authorial identity and academic norms in higher education, 
necessitating clear university usage policies. The International Journal of Information and Learning Technology, 41(2), 180–193. https://doi.org/10.1108/IJILT-11- 2023-0213 
Dwivedi, Y. K., Kshetri, N., Hughes, L., Slade, E. L., Jeyaraj, A., Kar, A. K., Baabdullah, A. M., Koohang, A., Raghavan, V., Ahuja, M., Albanna, H., Albashrawi, M. A., 
Al-Busaidi, A. S., Balakrishnan, J., Barlette, Y., Basu, S., Bose, I., Brooks, L., Buhalis, D., … Wright, R. (2023). “So what if ChatGPT wrote it?” Multidisciplinary perspectives on opportunities, challenges and implications of generative conversational AI for research, practice and policy. International Journal of Information Management, 71, Article 102642. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2023.102642 
Dwivedi, Y. K., Pandey, N., Currie, W., & Micu, A. (2024). Leveraging ChatGPT and other generative artificial intelligence (AI)-based applications in the hospitality 
and tourism industry: Practices, challenges and research agenda. International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management, 36(1), 1–12. https://doi.org/ 10.1108/IJCHM-05-2023-0686 
Engel, O., Zimmer, L. M., Lorz, ¨ M., & Mayweg-Paus, E. (2023). Digital studying in times of COVID-19: Teacher-and student-related aspects of learning success in 
German higher education. International Journal of Educational Technology in Higher Education, 20(1), 12. https://doi.org/10.1186/s41239-023-00382-w 
Epstein, Z., Hertzmann, A., Akten, M., Farid, H., Fjeld, J., Frank, M. R., Groh, M., Herman, L., Leach, N., Mahari, R., Pentland, A. S., Russakovsky, O., Schroeder, H., & 
Smith, A. (2023). Art and the science of generative AI. Science, 380(6650), 1110–1111. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.adh4451 
Farrokhnia, M., Banihashem, S. K., Noroozi, O., & Wals, A. (2023). A SWOT analysis of ChatGPT: Implications for educational practice and research. Innovations in 
Education & Teaching International, 61(3), 460–474. https://doi.org/10.1080/14703297.2023.2195846 
Feuerriegel, S., Hartmann, J., Janiesch, C., & Zschech, P. (2024). Generative AI. Business & Information Systems Engineering, 66(1), 111–126. https://doi.org/10.1007/ 
s12599-023-00834-7 
Freeman, J. (2024). New HEPI policy note finds more than half of students have used generative AI for help on assessments – but only 5% likely to be using AI to 
cheat. HEPI. https://www.hepi.ac.uk/2024/02/01/new-hepi-policy-note-finds-more-than-half-of-students-have-used-generative-ai-for-help-on-assessments-but- only-5-likely-to-be-using-ai-to-cheat/. 
Fui-Hoon Nah, F., Zheng, R., Cai, J., Siau, K., & Chen, L. (2023). Generative AI and ChatGPT: Applications, challenges, and AI-human collaboration. Journal of 
Information Technology Case and Application Research, 25(3), 277–304. https://doi.org/10.1080/15228053.2023.2233814 
Global Times. (2024). China’s Nanjing University launches groundbreaking AI core curriculum for new students. Global Trade. https://www.globaltimes.cn/page/ 
202402/1307809.shtml. 
Harvard University. (n.d.). Initial guidelines for the use of generative AI tools at Harvard. https://huit.harvard.edu/ai/guidelines. 
Herbold, S., Hautli-Janisz, A., Heuer, U., Kikteva, Z., & Trautsch, A. (2023). A large-scale comparison of human-written versus ChatGPT-generated essays. Scientific 
Reports, 13(1), Article 18617. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-45644-9 
Hern´andez,  R. (2012). Does continuous assessment in higher education support student learning? Higher Education, 64, 489–502. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10734- 
012-9506-7 
Heywood, J. (2000). Assessment in higher education: Student learning, teaching, programmes and institutions (Vol. 56). Jessica Kingsley Publishers.  
Hmelo-Silver, C. E., Chernobilsky, E., & Jordan, R. (2008). Understanding collaborative learning processes in new learning environments. Instructional Science, 36, 
409–430. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11251-008-9063-8 
Hobbins, J., Kerrigan, B., Farjam, N., Fisher, A., Houston, E., & Ritchie, K. (2022). Does a classroom-based curriculum offer authentic assessments? A strategy to 
uncover their prevalence and incorporate opportunities for authenticity. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 47(8), 1259–1273. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 02602938.2021.2009439 
Hossain, Z. (2022). Ethical literacy education in K-12 using the 4P academic integrity literacy model [Paper presentation]. In International association for school 
librarianship conference (IASL2022). South Carolina. 
Intelligent. (2023). Nearly 1 in 3 college students have used ChatGPT on written assignments. https://www.intelligent.com/nearly-1-in-3-college-students-have-used- 
chatgpt-on-written-assignments/. 
International Center for Academic Integrity (ICAI). (2021). The fundamental values of academic integrity (3rd ed.). ICAI.  
Jones, D. L. (2011). Academic dishonesty: Are more students cheating? Business Communication Quarterly, 74(2), 141–150. https://doi.org/10.1177/ 
1080569911404059 
Kelly, A., Sullivan, M., & Strampel, K. (2023). Generative artificial intelligence: University student awareness, experience, and confidence in use across disciplines. 
Journal of University Teaching and Learning Practice, 20(6), 12. https://doi.org/10.53761/1.20.6.12 
Kerr, P. (2016). Adaptive learning. ELT Journal, 70(1), 88–93. https://doi.org/10.1093/elt/ccv055 
Khan, Z. R. (2024). Academic integrity training module for academic stakeholders: IEPAR framework. Journal of Academic Ethics, 22, 9–31. https://doi.org/10.1007/ 
s10805-024-09517-8 
Kier, C. A., & Ives, C. (2022). Recommendations for a balanced approach to supporting academic integrity: Perspectives from a survey of students, faculty, and tutors. 
International Journal for Educational Integrity, 18(1), 22. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40979-022-00116-x 
Kong, S. C., Cheung, W. M. Y., & Zhang, G. (2021). Evaluation of an artificial intelligence literacy course for university students with diverse study backgrounds. 
Computers in Education: Artificial Intelligence, 2, Article 100026. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2021.100026 
Kong, S. C., Cheung, W. M. Y., & Zhang, G. (2023). Evaluating an artificial intelligence literacy programme for developing university students’ conceptual 
understanding, literacy, empowerment and ethical awareness. Educational Technology & Society, 26(1), 16–30. 
Kotsonis, A. (2022). Educating for collaboration: A virtue education approach. Ethics and Education, 17(3), 311–323. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 
17449642.2022.2111485 
Laupichler, M. C., Aster, A., Haverkamp, N., & Raupach, T. (2023). Development of the “scale for the assessment of non-experts’ AI literacy”–An exploratory factor 
analysis. Computers in Human Behavior Reports, 12, Article 100338. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chbr.2023.100338 
Lee, V. R., Pope, D., Miles, S., & Zarate, R. (2024). Cheating in the age of generative AI: A high school survey study of cheating behaviors before and after the release of 
ChatGPT. Computers in Education: Artificial Intelligence. , Article 100253. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2024.100253 
Li, T., Ji, Y., & Zhan, Z. (2024). Expert or machine? Comparing the effect of pairing student teacher with in-service teacher and ChatGPT on their critical thinking, 
learning performance, and cognitive load in an integrated-STEM course. Asia Pacific Journal of Education, 44(1), 45–60. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 02188791.2024.2305163 
Lim, W. M., Gunasekara, A., Pallant, J. L., Pallant, J. I., & Pechenkina, E. (2023). Generative AI and the future of education: Ragnarok ¨ or reformation? A paradoxical 
perspective from management educators. International Journal of Management in Education, 21(2), Article 100790. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijme.2023.100790 Lin, W., Yin, H., & Liu, Z. (2022). The roles of transformational leadership and growth mindset in teacher professional development: The mediation of teacher self- 
efficacy. Sustainability, 14(11), 6489. https://doi.org/10.3390/su14116489 
Liu, H., Azam, M., Bin Naeem, S., & Faiola, A. (2023). An overview of the capabilities of ChatGPT for medical writing and its implications for academic integrity. 
Health Information and Libraries Journal, 40(4), 440–446. https://doi.org/10.1111/hir.12509 
Liu, D., & Bridgeman, A. (2023). Supporting students to use AI resources responsibly and productively. The University of Sydney. https://educational-innovation.sydney. 
edu.au/teaching@sydney/supporting-students-to-use-ai-responsibly-and-productively/.  
Luo, J. (2024). A critical review of GenAI policies in higher education assessment: A call to reconsider the “originality” of students’ work. Assessment & Evaluation in 
Higher Education, 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2024.2309963 
Maastricht University. (n.d.). Project-based learning. https://www.maastrichtuniversity.nl/education/why-um/problem-based-learning. 
Martin, F., Chen, Y., Moore, R. L., & Westine, C. D. (2020). Systematic review of adaptive learning research designs, context, strategies, and technologies from 2009 to 
2018. Educational Technology Research & Development, 68, 1903–1929. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11423-020-09793-2 
Maynooth University. (n.d.). Authentic assessment. https://www.maynoothuniversity.ie/centre-teaching-and-learning/hub/authentic-assessment. 
McCabe, D. L., Butterfield, K. D., & Trevino, L. K. (2012). Cheating in college: Why students do it and what educators can do about it. JHU Press.  
Monash University. (n.d.). Learning and teaching: Teach HQ: AI and assessment. https://www.monash.edu/learning-teaching/teachhq/Teaching-practices/artificial- 
intelligence/generative-ai-and-assessment. 
Monteith, S., Glenn, T., Geddes, J. R., Whybrow, P. C., Achtyes, E., & Bauer, M. (2024). Artificial intelligence and increasing misinformation. The British Journal of 
Psychiatry, 224(2), 33–35. https://doi.org/10.1192/bjp.2023.136 
Moorhouse, B. L., Yeo, M. A., & Wan, Y. (2023). Generative AI tools and assessment: Guidelines of the world’s top-ranking universities. Computers and Education Open, 
5, Article 100151. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeo.2023.100151 
Newton, P., & Xiromeriti, M. (2023). ChatGPT performance on multiple choice question examinations in higher education. A pragmatic scoping review. Assessment & 
Evaluation in Higher Education, 1–18. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2023.2299059 
Noy, S., & Zhang, W. (2023). Experimental evidence on the productivity effects of generative artificial intelligence. Science, 381(6654), 187–192. https://doi.org/ 
10.1126/science.adh2586 
Ooi, K. B., Tan, G. W. H., Al-Emran, M., Al-Sharafi, M. A., Capatina, A., Chakraborty, A., Dwivedi, Y. K., Huang, T. L., Kar, A. K., Lee, V. H., Loh, X. M., Micu, A., 
Mikalef, P., Mogaji, E., Pandey, N., Raman, R., Rana, N. P., Sarker, P., Sharma, A., & Wong, L. W. (2023). The potential of generative artificial intelligence across disciplines: Perspectives and future directions. Journal of Computer Information Systems, 1–32. https://doi.org/10.1080/08874417.2023.2261010 
Peres, R., Schreier, M., Schweidel, D., & Sorescu, A. (2023). On ChatGPT and beyond: How generative artificial intelligence may affect research, teaching, and 
practice. International Journal of Research in Marketing, 40(2), 269–275. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijresmar.2023.03.001 
Perkins, M., Roe, J., Postma, D., McGaughran, J., & Hickerson, D. (2023). Detection of GPT-4 generated text in higher education: Combining academic judgement and 
software to identify generative AI tool misuse. Journal of Academic Ethics, 22(1), 89–113. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10805-023-09492-6 
Plata, S., De Guzman, M. A., & Quesada, A. (2023). Emerging research and policy themes on academic integrity in the age of Chat GPT and generative AI. Asian Journal 
of University Education, 19(4), 743–758. https://doi.org/10.24191/ajue.v19i4.24697 
Rahman, M. M., & Watanobe, Y. (2023). ChatGPT for education and research: Opportunities, threats, and strategies. Applied Sciences, 13(9), 5783. https://doi.org/ 
10.3390/app1309578 
Rasul, T., Nair, S., Kalendra, D., Robin, M., de Oliveira Santini, F., Ladeira, W. J., Sun, M., Day, I., Rather, R. A., & Heathcote, L. (2023). The role of ChatGPT in higher 
education: Benefits, challenges, and future research directions. Journal of Applied Learning and Teaching, 6(1). 
Ratten, V., & Jones, P. (2023). Generative artificial intelligence (ChatGPT): Implications for management educators. International Journal of Management in Education, 
21(3), Article 100857. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijme.2023.100857 
RMIT University. (2024, February 22). Generative AI for students at RMIT [Module]. RMIT University. https://rmit-catalog.rmit.edu.au/browse/catalog/rmit-library/ 
courses/gen-ai-rmit?_gl=1*zaqhzb*_gcl_au*MTAyNzY4ODcxNi4xNzEwNjE1OTA4. 
Rodríguez-Abitia, G., Martínez-P´erez, S., Ramirez-Montoya, M. S., & Lopez-Caudana, E. (2020). Digital gap in universities and challenges for quality education: A 
diagnostic study in Mexico and Spain. Sustainability, 12(21), 9069. https://doi.org/10.3390/su1221906 
Roe, J., & Perkins, M. (2023). What they’re not telling you about ChatGPT: Exploring the discourse of AI in UK news media headlines. Humanities and Social Sciences 
Communications, 10(1), 1–9. https://doi.org/10.1057/s41599-023-02282-w 
Rohm, A. J., Stefl, M., & Ward, N. (2021). Future proof and real-world ready: The role of live project-based learning in students’ skill development. Journal of 
Marketing Education, 43(2), 204–215. https://doi.org/10.1177/02734753211001409 
Sætra, H. S. (2023). Generative AI: Here to stay, but for good? Technology in Society, 75, Article 102372. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techsoc.2023.102372 Schindler, L. A., Burkholder, G. J., Morad, O. A., & Marsh, C. (2017). Computer-based technology and student engagement: A critical review of the literature. 
International Journal of Educational Technology in Higher Education, 14, 1–28. https://doi.org/10.1186/s41239-017-0063-0 
Schneckenberg, D. (2009). Understanding the real barriers to technology-enhanced innovation in higher education. Educational Research, 51(4), 411–424. https://doi. 
org/10.1080/00131880903354741 
Sefcik, L., Striepe, M., & Yorke, J. (2019). Mapping the landscape of academic integrity education programs: What approaches are effective? Assessment & Evaluation in 
Higher Education, 45(1), 30–43. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2019.1604942 
Seifert, T., & Bar-Tal, S. (2023). Student-teachers’ sense of belonging in collaborative online learning. Education and Information Technologies, 28(7), 7797–7826. 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-022-11498-3 
Smyrnova-Trybulska, E., Morze, N., & Varchenko-Trotsenko, L. (2022). Adaptive learning in university students’ opinions: Cross-border research. Education and 
Information Technologies, 27(5), 6787–6818. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-021-10830-7 
Southworth, J., Migliaccio, K., Glover, J., Reed, D., McCarty, C., Brendemuhl, J., & Thomas, A. (2023). Developing a model for AI across the curriculum: Transforming 
the higher education landscape via innovation in AI literacy. Computers in Education: Artificial Intelligence, 4, Article 100127. https://doi.org/10.1016/j. caeai.2023.100127 
Stanford Graduate School of Business. (n.d.). The experience: Collaborative environment. https://www.gsb.stanford.edu/experience/life/collaborative-environment. Stephens, J. M., & Wangaard, D. B. (2016). The achieving with integrity seminar: An integrative approach to promoting moral development in secondary school 
classrooms. International Journal for Educational Integrity, 12, 1–16. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40979-016-0010-1 
Stupnisky, R. H., Renaud, R. D., Daniels, L. M., Haynes, T. L., & Perry, R. P. (2008). The interrelation of first-year college students’ critical thinking disposition, 
perceived academic control, and academic achievement. Research in Higher Education, 49, 513–530. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11162-008-9093-8 
Swaffield, S. (2011). Getting to the heart of authentic assessment for learning. Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy & Practice, 18(4), 433–449. https://doi.org/ 
10.1080/0969594X.2011.582838 
Tal, R. T., Dori, Y. J., & Lazarowitz, R. (2000). A project-based alternative assessment system. Studies In Educational Evaluation, 26(2), 171–191. https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/S0191-491X(00)00014-6 
Taras, M. (2008). Summative and formative assessment: Perceptions and realities. Active Learning in Higher Education, 9(2), 172–192. https://doi.org/10.1177/ 
1469787408091655 
TEQSA. (2023). Assessment reform for the age of artificial intelligence. https://www.teqsa.gov.au/guides-resources/resources/corporate-publications/assessment- 
reform-age-artificial-intelligence. 
Thanh, B. N., Vo, D. T. H., Nhat, M. N., Pham, T. T. T., Trung, H. T., & Xuan, S. H. (2023). Race with the machines: Assessing the capability of generative AI in solving 
authentic assessments. Australasian Journal of Educational Technology, 39(5), 59–81. https://doi.org/10.14742/ajet.8902 
The University of Melbourne. (n.d.). Peer assisted study sessions. https://arts.unimelb.edu.au/students/undergraduate/enrich-your-bachelor-of-arts/peer-assisted- 
study-sessions. 
The University of Sydney. (2023). What you need to know about the new academic integrity policy. https://www.sydney.edu.au/study/student-life/student-news/ 
2023/05/29/what-you-need-to-know-about-the-new-academic-integrity-policy.html. 
Tiruneh, D. T., Verburgh, A., & Elen, J. (2014). Effectiveness of critical thinking instruction in higher education: A systematic review of intervention studies. Higher 
Education Studies, 4(1), 1–17. https://doi.org/10.5539/hes.v4n1p1 
UNESCO. (2023). Guidance for generative AI in education and research. https://www.unesco.org/en/articles/guidance-generative-ai-education-and-research. University of Bath. (2023). Support for students to use GenAI tools effectively and responsibly. https://www.bath.ac.uk/announcements/support-for-students-to-use- 
genai-tools-effectively-and-responsibly/. 
University of Oxford. (n.d.). AI in teaching and assessment. https://academic.admin.ox.ac.uk/ai-in-teaching-and-assessment. 
UTS. (n.d.). GenAI learning resources. https://www.uts.edu.au/current-students/support/helps/self-help-resources/genai-learning-resources. 
Van den Bergh, V., Mortelmans, D., Spooren, P., Van Petegem, P., Gijbels, D., & Vanthournout, G. (2006). New assessment modes within project-based education-the 
stakeholders. Studies In Educational Evaluation, 32(4), 345–368. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.stueduc.2006.10.005 
Vuopala, E., Hyvonen, ¨ P., & J¨arvel ¨a, S. (2016). Interaction forms in successful collaborative learning in virtual learning environments. Active Learning in Higher 
Education, 17(1), 25–38. https://doi.org/10.1177/1469787415616730 
Walters, K. S. (1990). Critical thinking, rationality, and the vulcanization of students. The Journal of Higher Education, 61(4), 448–467. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 
00221546.1990.11780724 
Wang, Y., Liu, C., & Tu, Y. F. (2021). Factors affecting the adoption of AI-based applications in higher education. Educational Technology & Society, 24(3), 116–129. Wangaard, D. B., & Stephens, J. M. (2011). Creating a culture of academic integrity: A toolkit for secondary schools. Search Institute Press.  
Wood, P. (2023). Oxford and Cambridge ban AI language tool GPT-3 over fears of plagiarism. The i https://inews.co.uk/news/oxford-cambridge-ban-chatgpt- 
plagiarism-universities-2178391. 
Yilmaz, R., & Yilmaz, F. G. K. (2023). The effect of generative artificial intelligence (AI)-based tool use on students’ computational thinking skills, programming self- 
efficacy and motivation. Computers in Education: Artificial Intelligence, 4, Article 100147. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2023.100147 
Zawacki-Richter, O., Marín, V. I., Bond, M., & Gouverneur, F. (2019). Systematic review of research on artificial intelligence applications in higher education–Where 
are the educators? International Journal of Educational Technology in Higher Education, 16(1), 1–27. https://doi.org/10.1186/s41239-019-0171-0 
13
