ASSESSMENT & EVALUATION IN HIGHER EDUCATION 
https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2026.2658633 

Lacking the  personal touch : students  perceptions of generative artificial intelligence in assessment feedback
Sarah E. Rosea  , Louise Taylorb  , Gary Pheifferc  , Zoe Fortune c  and Natalie Wildeb  
aDepartment of Psychology, University of Staffordshire, Stoke-on-Trent, UK; bSchool of Psychology, Social Work and Public Health, Oxford Brookes University, Oxford, UK; cDepartment of Psychology, Heriot Watt University, Dubai, UAE

ABSTRACT
Despite  the  potential  usefulness  of  Generative  Artificial Intelligence  (GenAI)  for  providing  assessment  feedback,  little  is known  about  students   understanding  and  perceptions  of  it. Addressing  this  gap  is  important  to  ensure  that  GenAI-assisted feedback is pedagogically effective, because its value depends on whether  students  perceive  it  as  credible  and  worth  acting  on. Twenty-five  students  (14  female,  mean  age  =  26.41 years)  study- ing a range of courses at British universities with campuses in the United  Kingdom  and  United  Arab  Emirates  took  part  in  one  of seven focus groups (n = 23) or interviews (n = 2). They were asked to explain what are the characteristics of useful feedback, whether they felt that GenAI could provide this, and their feelings about its potential use by tutors. Reflexive thematic analysis generated two  overarching  themes:  characteristics  of  GenAI  feedback   and 
 use  of  GenAI  in  feedback  processes .  Together,  these  demon - strated that students evaluated GenAI as a potentially useful tool for providing objective and individualised feedback, but not nec - essarily accurate feedback. Fundamentally, they did not believe it could  replace  human  expertise  or  provide  the  personal  touch , which  supports  the  theory  that  effective  feedback  is  dialogic. Findings can be used to guide practice and policy concerning the use of GenAI-assisted assessment feedback.
KEYWORDS Assessment feedback; Generative Artificial Intelligence; dialogic feedback; relational pedagogy

Introduction
Feedback  can  simultaneously  be  considered  as  one  of  the  most  fundamental  and problematic  elements  of  assessment  for  learning  in  western  higher  education (Winstone  et al.  2017).  Feedback  to  students  from  educators  has  the  potential  to 
CONTACT Louise Taylor  louise.e.taylor@brookes.ac.uk  School of Psychology, Social Work and Public Health, Oxford Brookes University, Oxford, UK.
' 2026  The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group
This  is  an Open  Access  article  distributed  under  the  terms  of  the Creative Commons  Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives License  (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/),  which  permits  non-commercial  re-use,  distribution,  and  reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited, and is not altered, transformed, or built upon in any way. The terms on which this article has been published allow the posting of the Accepted Manuscript in a repository by the author(s) or with their consent.

ASSESSMENT & EVALUATION IN HIGHER EDUCATION 17
have a high impact on the learning process (Hattie and Timperley 2007; Wisniewski, Zierer,  and  Hattie  2019),  but  only  if  students  perceive  it  as  useful  (Rose,  Taylor, and Jones 2025) and engage with it (Carless 2022; Lipnevich and Smith 2022; Nicol 2010). However, students  satisfaction and engagement with assessment feedback is typically poor (Ali, Ahmed, and Rose 2018; Winstone et al. 2017). With the rapid advancement and adoption of Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI), educators have  begun  to  explore  its  potential  use  in  assessment  feedback  (Corbin,  Tai,  and Flenady 2025; Lee and Moore 2024). However, little is known about how students themselves  understand  or  perceive  the  potential  of  usefulness  of  GenAI  in  the assessment  feedback  process.  This  paper  addresses  this  gap,  focusing  on  students  understanding and evaluation of the potential use of GenAI in assessment feedback. In doing so, the focus was on its use to provide qualitative written feedback, rather than  assigning  marks  or  grades.  The  research  adopted  a  social  constructivism approach to explore students  understanding and perceptions of GenAI, recognising that  students   views  and  comprehension  of  GenAI  are  actively  shaped  via  their interactions with GenAI itself, as well as wider disciplinary, social and institutional contexts.
Within  the  traditional  paradigm  of  feedback,  in  which  feedback  is  viewed  as information provision from tutors to students (Hattie and Timperley  2007), consid- erable research has examined students  perceptions of the content of that feedback. That  evidence  consistently  shows  that  students  value  detailed  and  timely  feedback (Van  der  Kleij  and  Lipnevich 2021;  Winstone  and  Nash  2023;  Wisniewski,  Zierer, and Hattie  2019) that is supportive, encouraging, motivating, and positive in tone, as well as  usable  (clear, constructive and helpful) (Playfoot, Horry, and Pink 2025). According  to  a  review  of  103  studies  by  Jonsson  (2013),  students  are  unlikely  to use  feedback  when  it  is  perceived  as  not  useful,  not  sufficiently  individualised,  is too  authoritative,  they  lack  strategies  to  use  it,  and  when  they  do  not  understand the terminology. Jonsson s (2013) review highlights that perceptions of useful feed- back  are  not  just  based  on  the  idea  that  feedback  is  a  one-way  transmission  of information from teacher to student, but a process whereby students need to actively interpret, negotiate, and apply their feedback. This suggests that effective feedback is dialogic,  requiring  a  relational  process  between  tutor  and  student  that  supports students   sense-making  (Ajjawi  and  Boud  2018)  and  the  development  of  learner agency  (Carless 2022;  Molloy,  Boud,  and  Henderson  2020;  Nicol 2010).  This  has been developed and conceptualised as a new feedback paradigm (Boud and Molloy 2013; Lipnevich and Smith 2022). However, providing  useful  assessment feedback presents  significant  challenges  for  tutors  due  to  time  and  resource  constraints (Henderson, Ryan, and Phillips 2019). Therefore, understanding students  perceptions of the potential usefulness of GenAI-assisted feedback will have important implica- tions for its potential integration into assessment feedback processes.
Previous research exploring the use of feedback produced by GenAI has tended to focus on feedback as information as opposed to feedback as a relational dialogue. While there are clear ethical issues with uploading student work into public GenAI tools (Funa and Gabay 2025) and concerns around feedback accuracy, the potential of GenAI feedback has already been demonstrated (for reviews, see Zhang, Li, and Huang 2026; Lee and Moore 2024). For example, Dai et al. (2024) found that GPT-4 could provide better feedback than a human tutor after being provided with clear prompts outlining the marking criteria; specifically, it provided more readable and consistent  feedback  that  also  supported  future  improvement  and  students  self-regulation  (see  also  Est vez-Ayres  et al. 2025;  Venter,  Coetzee,  and  Schmulian 2025). Escalante, Pack, and Barrett (2023) and Er et al. (2025), however, both report a mixed picture, with some students preferring tutor-generated feedback and others preferring  GenAI  feedback.  However,  the  focus  of  these  studies  was,  again,  on feedback as information giving rather than feedback as a relational dialogue.
The aim of this paper is not to debate the content or effectiveness of GenAI-assisted feedback  comments,  nor  the  ethical  issues  related  to  using  GenAI  in  this  way. Instead, the aim is to address the gap in knowledge of students  understanding of the  potential  role  of  GenAI-assisted  assessment  feedback  when  that  feedback  is conceptualised as a dialogic or relational process. Within this paradigm, the utility of feedback is affected by issues external to the characteristics of the feedback itself, including  the  emotional  responses  that  it  triggers,  as  well  as  students   willingness to  trust  it  (Ajjawi  et al. 2022;  Ajjawi  and  Boud 2018;  Carless  and  Boud 2018). Automated  systems  may  shift  how  students  perceive  the  source  of  feedback,  how legitimate  it  feels,  and  how  easily  follow-up  dialogue  can  occur.  In  a  quantitative survey study of 7000 Australian university students, Henderson et al. (2025) found that, of approximately half the students who already used GenAI to gain feedback on their assessed work, the majority rated tutor feedback as more trustworthy than feedback  produced  by  GenAI.  They  also  felt  that  seeking  feedback  from  a  GenAI tool was less  risky  than seeking tutor feedback, but they were concerned that GenAI lacked the disciplinary expertise of their tutors. These findings suggest that relational issues of trustworthiness and reliability are qualities of feedback most strongly asso- ciated  with  human  feedback.  These  are  key  components  of  dialogic  feedback  pro- cesses; however, these findings are limited to views of only students who are already high frequency users of GenAI.
In  the  current  study,  we  positioned  GenAI  as  part  of  a  wider  socio-pedagogic feedback  system  (Corbin,  Tai,  and  Flenady 2025;  Zhan  and  Yan  2025).  GenAI  is not merely a source of informational comments, but a potential actor within feed- back  processes,  shaping  learner  agency,  dialogue,  and  trust.  Its  value  depends  on how it is integrated into feedback designs and relationships, including transparency and the preservation of opportunities for dialogue and evaluative judgement.
In summary, although there is evidence that GenAI has the potential to produce constructive and timely feedback on students  work, little is known about students  understanding of this potential, nor how they would perceive and evaluate its use within a dialogic feedback paradigm. This is a critical gap because the pedagogic value of GenAI-assisted feedback depends on whether students perceive it as cred- ible and worth acting on. The aim of this study was to provide an in-depth exam- ination of students  understanding and perceptions of the potential role of GenAI in  assessment  feedback  processes.  This  was  achieved  using  a  social  constructivist approach using a series of focus groups to enable students to construct and reflect on  their  understanding  of  GenAI  through  dialogue  with  their  peers.  Initially,  the study was going to explore these issues in two cultures with contrasting educational approaches  (the  United  Kingdom  (UK)  and  United  Arab  Emirates  (UAE)).  The sampling approach was designed accordingly, whereby students were recruited from UK Universities with campuses in the UK or the UAE. However, during data col- lection and analysis, notable consistency in students  views became apparent, there- fore  the  data  were  treated  as  a  single  dataset.  Data  were  analysed  using  reflexive thematic analysis (Braun and Clarke 2022), and the manuscript was prepared with reference to the  Big Q Qualitative Reporting Guidelines  (Braun and Clarke 2025).
Positionality
Except for NW, who was working as a part-time psychology research associate, we are  experienced  full-time  psychology  academics,  engaged  in  teaching  and  research at  UK  higher  education  institutions  (HEI).  We  teach  and  assess  students   work  at undergraduate  and  postgraduate  levels.  Although  we  all  have  some  experience  of using GenAI at work, none of us have used GenAI in our assessment and feedback processes.  Our  shared  interest  is  in  exploring  the  potential  of  GenAI  to  support academics and enhance student learning. We recognised that our teaching roles and existing  relationships  with  potential  student  participants  may  have  influenced  stu - dents  willingness to participate and share their views. Therefore, NW was employed to recruit participants and collect and analyse data due to her impartiality. She has some previous experience of assessing higher education students as well as under- taking research with higher education students.
Materials and methods
Participants
Participants were recruited through adverts shared digitally  via university learning platforms  and  word  of  mouth,  including  snowball  sampling.  The  only  inclusion criteria  was  that  students  needed  to  be  currently  studying  at  a  UK  HEI.  In  total, 25  students  from  five  UK  HEIs  (one  with  a  campus  in  the  UAE),  volunteered  to participate between March-May, 2025. Four focus groups (n = 11) and two interviews were conducted with students in the UK and 3 focus group (n = 12) were conducted with students in the UAE. Participants received a £20 shopping voucher for partic- ipating.  Ethical  approval  was  granted  by  the  Social  Sciences  Ethics  Committee  of Heriot  Watt  University,  number  2025-10005-14356.  All  participants  gave  informed consent  prior  to  taking  part  via  a  digital  consent  form  and  re-confirmed  consent verbally at the beginning of each focus group. An online survey was used to collect demographic  information  prior  to  each  discussion,  but  one  participant  did  not complete this. Of the 24 students for whom we had demographic details half were living  in  the  UK  and  half  were  living  in  the  UAE.  Nine  participants  described themselves  as  Indian,  seven  as  British,  with  others  describing  themselves  as  either  other  white  background   (n = 4),  mixed  or  multiple  ethnic  background   (n = 2),  or as  coming  from  specific  countries  (n = 2,  Iran  and  Ukraine).  Fourteen  participants described themselves as female, seven as male, two described themselves in another way,  and  one  preferred  not  to  say.  The  mean  age  of  participants  was  26.41 years (range  =  18—50; SD = 9.41).  Nineteen  students  were  undergraduates  and  five  were postgraduates.  Participants  were  from  a  range  of  courses  including  psychology (n = 11),  computer  science  (n = 5),  social  work  (n = 2),  and  marketing  (n = 2),  with four  being  from  a  range  of  other  disciplines  (occupational  therapy,  engineering, medical science, and education studies).
Procedure
Before the focus groups took place, participants completed a short online question- naire about their use of AI tools including Grammar checkers, paraphrasing tools, and  translation  tools,  as  well  as  GenAI  tools  (Chat  GPT,  Gemini,  Co-Pilot,  etc). They  were  asked  to  indicate  the  average  number  of  hours  per  week  during  term time  for  their  studies  that  they  used  each  of  these  main  categories  of  tools.  They were also asked to indicate for how many months they have been using these tools on a scale that increased in monthly intervals from 0 months to 6+ months. Focus groups  took  place  online,  with  two  becoming  interviews  due  to  last-minute  issues with  participant  availability.  A  pilot  focus  group  was  conducted  by  GP  and  ZF  to check  question  clarity  and  that  the  volume  of  questions  was  appropriate.  Minor changes  to  wording  and  follow-up  prompts  were  made  to  improve  the  flow.  The pilot data was not included in the final analysis.
Participants were informed that the discussion would be facilitated by an indepen- dent  researcher  (NW)  who  was  not  known  to  any  of  the  participants  or  associated with  their  studies.  At  the  start  of  data  generation  sessions,  NW  introduced  herself, emphasising  that  anything  shared  would  not  have  any  impact  on  students   studies. She  provided  a  definition  of  GenAI  as  follows:  Generative  AI  is  a  type  of  artificial intelligence that focuses on creating new content. Instead of simply analysing or clas- sifying existing data, generative AI models can produce original outputs . After checking whether participants had any questions, the discussions began with a general question about  what  type  of  feedback  students  found  useful  and  why.  The  discussion  then moved  on  to  whether  they  thought  GenAI  could  be  used  to  provide  this  feedback and their views on whether and how their tutors could use it. NW encouraged each student to contribute to the discussion for each question and used prompts to elicit detail  and  clarification.  The  full  focus  group/interview  protocol  is  available  on  the Open  Science  Framework  (https://osf.io/qhyfs/overview?view_only=0d9bad6e3f264c5f 96978101933753df).  Overall,  focus  groups  lasted  between  30  and  55 min  and  both interviews lasted approximately 30 min. Transcripts were generated automatically from the Zoom recording, and manually revised for accuracy against the recording by NW.
Analytic approach
The  data  was  analysed  using  reflexive  thematic  analysis  (Braun  and  Clarke 2022) and through a social constructivist lens with data from interviews and focus groups being analysed as one data set. The aim was to capture students  understanding of GenAI  and  perceptions  of  its  potential  role  in  assessment  feedback.  Therefore,  an inductive  approach  was  taken  because  the  codes  and  themes  were  not  predefined but generated during analysis. Furthermore, the analysis was semantic, focusing on meanings  at  an  overt  level  by  staying  close  to  the  language  of  participants  rather than extracting implicit or conceptual levels of meaning.
Data analysis followed the phases outlined by Braun and Clarke (2022). This was initially conducted by NW due to her independence and familiarity with the data. After reading all the transcripts, transcripts were analysed in turn, with NW creating codes by identifying segments of data that appeared meaningful or relevant to the research  questions.  This  was  done  using  the  comment  box  in  Microsoft  Word  to label sections of text with a code label. No other software was used. Once coding was  completed,  using  an  iterative  process  NW  started  grouping  clusters  of  codes that appeared to share the same core ideas or meanings. From these initial codes, broader  themes  were  created  and  given  an  initial  description.  During  this  process each theme was reviewed in terms of its overall fit in relation to the whole dataset, assessing  the  relevance  of  the  codes  within  it.  Once  NW  had  produced  an  initial set of themes, these were discussed with SR and LT who had also read the original transcripts but not been involved in the coding. Through these discussions an initial seven themes were refined to ensure that each one had a strong core concept that related  to  the  primary  research  question.  SR  then  led  writing  the  results  section, which  was  discussed  and  edited  by  all  authors.  After  receiving  feedback  from peer-reviewers,  the  initial  seven  themes  were  reorganised  into  two  major  themes, each with three sub-themes. This was reviewed and refined further through discus- sion between SR, LT, GP, and ZF.
Findings
Students  own use of AI
Before presenting the reflexive thematic analysis, participants  responses are contex- tualised  by  outlining  how  they  reported  using  AI.  Their  experiences  varied;  three reported  never  having  used  any  AI  tools  for  their  studies,  while  nine  had  been using them for 6-months or more (see  Table 1). The most popular tools were GenAI chatbot  applications,  such  as  ChatGPT/Gemini/Co-pilot,  with  specific  tools  for grammar checking, translation, and paraphrasing reportedly used less frequently and for less time (see Table 2).
Table 1.  Number of months that students reported using any AI tools for academic study.
Months 0 1 2 3 4 5 6+
n = 3 1 3 3 3 2 9
% = 12.5% 4% 12.5% 12.5% 12.5% 8% 38%
Table 2.  Types of AI tools used in terms of average number of hours per week during term ti me.
Type of tool Mean hours per week (SD)
Grammar checker 4.74 (5.11) Paraphrasing 5.86 (8.34) Translation 4.28 (7.39) Generative AI (e.g. Chat GPT, Gemini, co-pilot)
 8.78
 (9.04)
Table 3.  Overview of themes and subthemes on the basis of the focus groups/interviews in they were discussed.
Interviews Focus groups
Themes 1 2 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Total 1 Perceived characteristics of GenAI feedback
1.1 GenAI feedback may lack accuracy × × × × × × × 7
1.2 GenAI feedback is more objective × × × × × 5
1.3 GenAI can be trained to give individualised  × × × × × × × × 8 feedback
2 Use of GenAI in the feedback process
2.1. GenAI could assist tutors, but not replace the  × × × × × × × × × 9 student-tutor relationship
2.2. Feedback from GenAI alone would not be good  × × × × × × 6 value
2.3. There needs to be transparency in how tutors  × × × × 4 use GenAI
Students  perceptions of GenAI feedback
The two overarching themes and subthemes generated through the reflexive thematic analysis are presented in Table 3. The number of focus groups (FG) or interviews (I) in which each theme and sub-theme was discussed is also provided in Table 3. to demonstrate saliency and for transparency. The themes are outlined and discussed below, with the inclusion of illustrative quotes from the transcripts.
1. Perceived characteristics of GenAI feedback
The first theme focused on participants  understanding of the content of feedback that  they  thought  GenAI  could  produce.  Specifically,  participants  described  three key areas that were related to the characteristics of GenAI that influenced how they felt about it. These were accuracy, objectivity, and the extent to which GenAI could offer individualised feedback once it was trained.
1.1. GenAI feedback might lack accuracy
The importance of knowledge through experience that tutors bring to the feedback process was highlighted as an important aspect in relation to feedback accuracy. It was perceived that tutors bring a depth of knowledge to the process that can only be gained through real-world experiences in their fields. This expertise and knowl- edge were respected by participants. However, this resulted in an interesting paradox presented  by  some  participants  in  which  they  both  acknowledged  the  potential  of AI  to  be  accurate  but  also  the  potential  for  inaccuracy  due  to  lack  of  contextual knowledge. For example, one participant described GenAI as a  calculator , explaining how it predicts and calculates responses based on the information available at the time, but lacks the professional experience to understand nuance. Another participant explained that it is less accurate than a tutor because of lack of experience.
ChatGPT  is  like  a  consolidation  of  different  resources,  right?  ChatGPT  will  not  nec- essarily possess the knowledge that professors have got through experience, right? But that s why the accuracy might not be OK. (Marketing, UAE, FG2)
Tutors were described as able to apply their real-world experience within feedback. Moreover, participants noted that tutors also had contextual understanding specific to  the  assignment.  In  contrast,  participants  were  sceptical  about  whether  GenAI could understand the subtleties of specific assessment requirements.
They ve  [tutors]  set  the  questions  so  they  know  what  they re  looking  for  specifically and  then  they  can  see  and  make  those  judgments,  you  know,  looking  at  your  work, and that s something that I feel GenAI just can t replicate. (Occupational therapy, UK, FG1).
This situates perceptions of feedback accuracy as being part of the dialogue that the more contemporary models of assessment feedback propose. Participants perceive that the content of the feedback should build on the expectations set for the assess- ment  and  continue  the  dialogue,  rather  than  be  a  standalone  transmission  of information.
1.2. GenAI feedback is more objective
The paradox of perceptions of accuracy of GenAI feedback were also developed in this sub-theme, because participants perceived that a strength GenAI feedback was its potential to be more objective than a tutor, which was felt to be more accurate. One reason for this perceived objectivity given by several participants is that GenAI is less biased because it would not be comparing one piece of students  work to the one that preceded it.
I think it would be much less biased to evaluate that, because the Professor,   If he saw,  like  a  really  good  report,  the  next  report,  even  if  it  meets  the  requirements  by comparison it would seem a little less so. I think ChatGPT would not have that bias, because it s still evaluating everything individually. Yeah. I think that would be good. (Computer science, UAE, FG7).
Another  reason  that  some  participants  thought  that  GenAI  feedback  might  be more  objective  is  that  it  is  not  influenced  by  marking  fatigue.  Participants  were aware of the limitations that tutors had with regards to time and energy, and they believed  that  this  had  the  potential  to  lead  to  inaccurate  feedback.  Therefore,  a perceived  benefit  of  GenAI  feedback  was  the  reduction  of  fatigue-induced  errors because GenAI could easily ingest, evaluate and provide feedback on multiple lengthy submissions without tiring.
So  it  might  be that yours is the last one they look at. And actually, they re so tired, and they need to go to bed, or they need to have a coffee, or whatever it might be, by  the  time  they  get  to  yours,  whereas  AI  doesn t  have  that  aspect  of  like,  it s  not going to get fatigued, so, it s going to be more accurate every time, whereas it s, there s human error when tutors are marking. (Psychology, UK, FG3).
This  perception  of  objectivity  of  the  content  of  GenAI  feedback  seems  to  be positioned within a context of recognising human fallacy, to be biased and to expe- rience fatigue, rather than necessarily being a strength of GenAI. It is also noticeable that  within  these  discussions  there  seemed  to  be  little  acknowledgement  of  how GenAI might  learn  and adapt its output based on previous prompts and materials that  have  been  uploaded.  However,  the  final  sub-subtheme  suggests  that  this  is something  that  participants  did  have  an  awareness  of,  despite  not  referring  to  it within this context of accuracy and objectivity.
1.3. GenAI can be trained to give individualised feedback
While some participants thought that GenAI might struggle to provide individualised feedback, and instead give generic feedback, many recognised the potential of GenAI to  be  able  to  provide  highly  detailed  feedback  adapted  to  the  specific  work  that they  had  submitted.  However,  participants  also  spoke  about  needing  to  provide  it with  information,  such  as  a  marking  rubric,  for  the  feedback  to  be  more individualised.
I ve actually found that it can give individual feedback. So, if you give, like, the rubric that s given for the coursework, specifically, it can technically give you, like, individual feedback that is, like, relevant to your work and can also give you input on if it s, like, a 1st class level or, like, merit level or, like, pass level. (Psychology, UAE, FG6)
This  suggests  that  participants  perceived  that  GenAI  can  respond  to  context specific prompts, and that this process may increase their perceptions of the quality of the feedback that it can generate. Again, this is situating feedback within a dia- logic process; to make the feedback more usable, participants value the individualised feedback created via the dialogic process. To achieve this outcome, inherent in the dialogic  process  is  the  need  to  provide  GenAI  with  the  information  beyond  the specific  work  to  be  fed  back  on;  it  should  be  provided  with  further  details  about the assignment brief and the expectations against which the work is to be evaluated. This situates the dialogic feedback process as part of a larger conversation: as par- ticipants  awareness increases and GenAI  learns , the potential of GenAI continues to increase, even emulating the tone and style of their tutor.
I  mean,  if  it s  trained  on  the  same  person s  speech  and  the  same  person s  feedback style,  I  don t  really  think  that  it  would  be  noticeable,  especially  not  when  you  have lecturers who ve marked a huge amount, who have large volumes of their own, written work, their own emails, and everything to train on. (Psychology, UK, I2)
In addition to demonstrating an understanding that GenAI can  learn  and adapt its output, these discussions appear to be emphasising further how participants are perceiving the value of feedback not just as a transmission of information but as a conversation  or  dialogue  in  which  they  value  tone  of  delivery.  What  is  less  clear from this discussion is how this potential of GenAI to emulate the style and tone of  an  individual  should  be  used;  are  participants  suggesting  that  tutors  could  use this  to  polish   their  own  feedback?  or  are  they  suggesting  that  tutors  could  use GenAI  to  carry  out  a  dialogic  feedback  process?  The  next  theme  addresses  this directly.
2. Use of GenAI in the feedback process
This theme focused on how participants thought GenAI could be used in an assistive role  as  part  of  a  feedback  process.  Key  issues  centred  on  it  being  used  in  a transparent way in order to assist tutors, but not as a replacement for the student-tutor relationship.  Furthermore,  its  use  was  seen  as  devaluing  the  educational  process, both in terms of the financial cost of their tuition fees, and in terms of the personal cost of time and effort they put into their work.
2.1. GenAI could assist tutors, but not replace the student-tutor relationship All  participants  either  perceived,  or  agreed  with  other  participants   views,  that GenAI could play an assistive role in generating feedback of behalf of their tutor. The  consistent  view,  however,  was  that  this  role  could  complement,  and  not  be used to replace the relationship between the student and tutor. Some participants commented on how they used Gen-AI to assist them, and therefore, it was only right  that  tutors  could  use  it  too,  for  example,  using  GenAI  to  improve  the structure and style of the feedback written by the tutor. While some talked about using  it  to  improve  tutors   grammar,  others  felt  it  could  be  used  even  more extensively to enhance the feedback by including additional detail and signposting to resources.
If  the  tutor  uses  GenAI  to,  for  example,  fill  in  the  bullet  points.  So,  they ve  given  a list,  bullet  point  list  of  feedback  suggestions,  and  it  fills  in  the  gaps  and  collects  the references and the links for them. Don t really see a problem with that, either. That s ultimately the tutor. (Psychology, UK, I2)
However, participants consistently emphasised that the tutor had to have an active role in the process,  checking  the feedback to provide that  human touch  and bear ultimate responsibility for it.
I  think  the  main  stance  for  all  of  us  is  that  they  can  definitely  use  generative  AI  It s kind of like having an assistant, [ ] but they have to be there to fact-check every - thing and make sure it s according to their style, [ ] but at the end the professor has the responsibility. (Computer science, UAE, FG6).
Much of the narrative from all participants directly reflects their perceptions that feedback is a process that goes far beyond the transmission of information. Specifically, participants felt that GenAI could assist but not replace the student-tutor relationship. They  reported  that  interaction  with  tutors  was  key  to  their  personal  development during  the  feedback  process.  The  human  connection  built  between  a  student  and their tutor over time was described as  irreplaceable  by some participants, with many highlighting the importance of this relationship when it came to feedback dialogue.
You ve got relationship with them, and you can have a laugh and things, and if you re not sure, you can just go to them. You can t do that with a computer. So, even if it s completely AI created then the tutor s not really - hasn t written it, so you can t have that follow up conversation with them about,  why did you say this? , or  what made you think that I could have done this better?  Because they haven t written it (Social work, UK, I1).
Furthermore,  participants  explained  the  emotional  importance  of  building  and maintaining  a  relationship  with  their  tutor  during  their  studies.  They  felt  that  this relationship allowed for feedback that was tailored to their current situation. Participants also talked about how this human connection was important in influencing how they felt  about  the  feedback,  suggesting  that  feedback  from  GenAI  would  not  have  the same  meaning  and  credence  for  them.  As  the  participant  below  explains,  feedback generated by GenAI would not necessarily be trusted in the same way as tutor feedback.
I  also  just  wouldn t  believe  it  as  much.  It  doesn t  seem  as  believable  because  I  know that  there  are  humans  who ve  studied  that  for  years.  And  this  is  a  robot.  I m  never going  to  be  able  to  truly  trust  programming  versus  human  connection.  (Psychology, UAE, FG5)
This theme illustrates the centrality of the student—tutor relationship in shaping how feedback is understood, valued, and acted upon. Across the data, participants consistently framed feedback not as a discrete product but as a relational and devel- opmental process one grounded in trust, dialogue, and the sense of being known as an individual. While students acknowledged that GenAI could potentially support certain aspects of feedback delivery, they were clear that it could not replicate the emotional  resonance,  contextual  sensitivity,  or  meaningful  exchange  that  emerges through human connection. The perception that tutors draw on both expertise and personal knowledge of the student resulted in feedback with legitimacy and authen- ticity, qualities students felt GenAI could not provide. Thus, this theme underscores that for these learners, effective feedback is inseparable from the relational conditions in  which  it  is  given,  affirming  the  enduring  importance  of  human  interaction  in educational practice.
2.2. Feedback from GenAI alone would not be good value
Many participants felt that feedback provided solely by GenAI would undermine the value of their degrees, both in terms of financial value and in terms of their time  and  effort.  Participants  explained  how  they  paid  for  their  degree  with  the expectation  that  they  would  receive  tutor-crafted  feedback  and  guidance,  so receiving  GenAI-assisted  feedback  would  feel  like  they  were  not  getting  good value  for  money.
As  fees  are  £9,500  a  year,  lecturers  wouldn t  be  doing  their  job  properly.  They  could be on holiday, and it would just be generating marks for assignments, which wouldn t be fair on the student (Psychology, UK, FG4).
As well as diminishing the perceived financial value of their degree, participants highlighted that GenAI-assisted feedback could lead them to questioning the time and effort that they had personally put into completing assignments.
We ve  put  the  effort  in  the  work.  So  obviously,  you  know,  as  a,  as  a  response,  you would  expect  some  sort  of  effort  put  by  the  tutor.  When  we  know  that  ChatGPT  is reading our work and responding to us, then that may lead some people to say,  if we are not being valued, if our work is not really being looked into properly by a human, why  are  we  bothering  drafting  all  this  by  ourselves?  We  can  just  ask  ChatGPT . (Psychology, UAE, FG7).
This perception that tutors need to uphold standards, and that they should put effort in when they are expecting students to put effort in also underpins the next subtheme  concerning  tutors  being  expected  to  conform  to  the  same  standards  as students.
2.3. There needs to be transparency in how tutors use GenAI
Participants perceived transparency to be crucial if GenAI is used in feedback pro- cesses. They felt that institutions need to bring in standardised practices that require tutors to declare if, and how, GenAI was used in the creation of feedback. Participants explained that tutors should complete an AI declaration, just as they have to them- selves when submitting their assignments.
Markers were, kind of, held to the same standard of,  I m marking this thing, I m using AI, I have to declare that to the student so they re aware that I used it, to begin with, but also specifically how I used it . (Psychology, UK, FG1)
This sub-theme provides important content on students  belief that tutors should be held to the same standards as students and how transparency around the use of GenAI effects students  perceptions. This is of particular importance when situated with the broader context of questions about accuracy and trust in content produced from GenAI.
Discussion
The aim of this study was to contribute to the evidence gap in understanding how students understand and perceive the potential of GenAI to be used in the assess- ment feedback process. This is a critical question because students  perceptions will directly  influence  how  they  engage  with  feedback  to  support  their  learning  (Rose, Taylor,  and  Jones 2025).  Applying  current  theorising  of  feedback  as dialogic,  this study explored students  understanding of feedback not only as information giving but as a relational activity. In confirming the importance of pedagogic student-tutor relationships,  the  findings  can  be  applied  to  educational  practice  and  policy  to inform the use of GenAI tools in assessment feedback processes.
The  analysis  generated  two  overarching  themes,  each  with  three  subthemes. Together,  these  captured  how  participating  students  understood  and  perceived  the use of GenAI in the assessment feedback process. Theme 1 encapsulated their per- ceptions  of  the  characteristics  of  GenAI  feedback.  This  included  that  it  may  lack accuracy (1.1) because it lacks tutors  real-world and contextual knowledge. However, students  also  believed  that  it  could  be  more  objective  than  tutors  who  experience fatigue  (1.2),  and  that  GenAI  can  be  trained  to  give  individualised  and  tailored feedback relevant to specific rubrics (1.3). Theme 2 encapsulated issues relating to the feedback process. Participating students supported the idea that could use GenAI in an assistive role, but firmly felt that meaningful feedback is relational, grounded in trust, emotional understanding, and follow-up dialogue, and they felt that GenAI cannot replicate these qualities. Therefore, they believed that GenAI cannot replace the student—tutor relationship in the feedback process (2.1). They felt that feedback from GenAI alone was not good value, and that it would undermine the financial and personal investment in their degrees (2.2). Finally, they felt that any GenAI use by tutors in feedback processes must be transparent (2.3).
Throughout participants  narratives there was consistent evidence that their per - ceptions of feedback were not based solely on the content of the feedback, instead their  perceptions  reflected  the  more  contemporary  concept  of  feedback  being  a relational  process.  For  example,  while  participants  often  framed  good  feedback  as  objective  and  accurate  these qualities did not seem to be fixed features of a com- ment. Instead, perceptions of objectivity were shaped by fairness and transparency. Trust in the source and accuracy depended on disciplinary norms and tacit standards that are usually developed through dialogue and shared calibration (Ajjawi and Boud 2018; Nicol 2010). These findings suggest that students  evaluations of GenAI feed- back  reflected  wider  feedback  relationships  and  assessment  cultures,  rather  than inherent qualities of any GenAI output.
The  findings  of  this  study  support  the  concepts  of  feedback  as  a  dialogic  and interactive  process  (Boud  and  Molloy 2013;  Lipnevich  and  Smith 2022).  Students described GenAI as being able to help them access and understand feedback, and its  potential  ability  to  assist  tutors.  However,  this  process  was  shaped  by  the  con- versation  between  the  student  or  tutor  and  GenAI;  only  when  GenAI  is  fed  the right information (such as a marking rubric) can it improve. The findings therefore suggests that it is the nature of the interaction with GenAI that qualifies this process of student feedback and interpretation. Further judgements of GenAI-assisted feed- back  are  influenced  by  thoughts  around  capability  of  GenAI  to  offer  appropriate, learned and contextualised feedback when compared with a tutor that they are being taught  by.  Therefore,  students   evaluation  of  GenAI s  role  in  the  feedback  process rest not only on the detail, tone, or speed of comments, but on how the technology fits  into  the  wider  network  of  relationships,  responsibilities,  and  dialogue.  This supports Escalante, Pack, and Barrett (2023) suggestion that students value perceived objectivity  and  consistency  of  GenAI s  feedback   while  questioning  its  disciplinary depth and experiential judgement. The participants in the current study often linked GenAI feedback to a lack of accountability and the absence of an ongoing pedagogic dialogue, suggesting that trust is built through human interaction rather than infor - mational accuracy alone. Through the lens of feedback literacy and dialogic feedback, concerns  about  value,  transparency,  and  the  personal  touch   point  to  what  makes feedback educationally meaningful: credible relational accountability and opportunities for sense-making and action (Ajjawi and Boud 2018; Carless and Boud 2018).
Dialogue  remains  central  to  students   perceptions  of  effective  feedback,  but  its meaning  may  need  to  be  reconsidered  in  GenAI-supported  contexts.  Traditional accounts  highlight  interaction  that  helps  students  to  make  sense  of  comments, understand  standards,  and  develop  agency  within  trusting  pedagogic  relationships (Ajjawi  and  Boud 2018;  Nicol 2010).  GenAI  complicates  this  picture.  Although  it can respond to prompts and adjust explanations, such exchanges lack the relational and educational responsibilities that underpin genuine feedback dialogue supporting evaluative judgement, negotiating meaning, and aligning guidance with programme expectations  (Ajjawi  et al. 2022;  Boud  and  Molloy 2013;  Carless  and  Boud 2018). The  findings  suggest  that  students  recognise  this  distinction.  Concerns  about  the missing  personal  touch   and  uncertainty  over  the  legitimacy  of  GenAI  feedback reflect questions about agency and accountability. While GenAI can increase oppor- tunities for student-tutor interaction, it can obscure who is responsible for feedback quality,  interpretation,  and  follow-up,  shifting  engagement  towards  more  individu - alised and transactional exchanges. Recent scholarship reinforces this view, arguing that the key issue is not whether GenAI can simulate dialogue, but how AI-mediated interactions are positioned within feedback systems that preserve learner agency and relational accountability (Zhan and Yan 2025; Corbin, Tai, and Flenady 2025). This underscores  the  need  for  feedback  designs  that  maintain  tutor  involvement  and ensure opportunities for human dialogue, rather than positioning GenAI as a sub - stitute feedback partner.
Employing GenAI in an assistive role, as suggested by the participants, may have advantages by potentially reducing marking workload and freeing-up time for tutors to support students, but this may be oversimplistic. Ethics and copyright issues of uploading students  work to a GenAI tool need to be addressed (Funa and Gabay 2025), and extensive guidance for tutors on effective and transparent use would be required.  Careful  consideration  would  also  need  to  be  given  to  how  tutors   roles could  be  enhanced  to  focus  on  the  relational  element  of  the  feedback  process. Therefore,  institutional  debates  and  research  should  move  beyond  comparing  AI and tutor comments and instead focus on feedback designs that protect and strengthen dialogic conditions that support learning. This includes clear disclosure, active tutor stewardship,  and  structured  opportunities  for  students  to  discuss,  interpret,  and apply  feedback  as  part  of  their  need  to  develop  evaluative  judgement  over  time (Boud and Molloy 2013; Molloy, Boud, and Henderson 2020).
While this study achieved its aim of developing an in-depth account of students  understanding and perceptions of the potential of GenAI-assisted feedback, partic - ipants  responses were somewhat speculative because they did not know if they had actually  received  GenAI-assisted  feedback  from  their  tutors.  Therefore,  their  per- ceptions may not be the same if they were responding about GenAI feedback that they had actually received for a piece of work. This is an area for future research, for example, by systematically examining the impact of students  own GenAI usage on their perceptions of its use by their tutors (Karan and Chakma  2026). Additionally, the potential influence of individual differences on perceptions of GenAI feedback were not considered, yet there is a growing body of evidence suggesting that demo- graphic variables, such as age and gender, as well as personality characteristics, may predict general views about AI (e.g. Guingrich and Graziano 2025; Stein et al. 2024).
Although the data was collected from students studying at UK HEIs in both the UK and UAE, views expressed from students in both cultural contexts were remark- ably  consistent,  despite  holding  focus  groups  separately  for  students  from  each country. Nonetheless it is important to acknowledge that the findings of the current study do not imply that there are no cultural differences, particularly when students may  be  studying  at  institutions  with  less  homogenous  policies  and  academic  pro- cesses. Finally, all participants were enrolled in campus-based courses, and students taught online may have different perceptions and views about GenAI-assisted assess- ment feedback.
Conclusion
This  study  makes  a  significant  theoretical  and  empirical  contribution  to  the  under - standing of student s conceptualisation of feedback in higher education in the context of GenAI. In line with dialogic theory, the findings show that students  responses to the potential use of GenAI by tutors for providing assessment feedback are not only shaped by their understanding of how it produces content (feedback as information), but by the relational issues of trust, accountability, and opportunities for conversation through pedagogic dialogue. The study, therefore, extends dialogic feedback theory to AI-mediated contexts, and confirms that feedback relationships are a key site where GenAI can reshape learning experiences. Educators, learning developers and institu- tional policy makers need to know that, while GenAI systems could be accepted by students to outsource feedback information, they cannot replace  the personal touch  provided  by  genuine  student-tutor  relationships.  Feedback  processes,  therefore,  need to  preserve  and  potentially  strengthen  student-tutor  interactions,  while  supporting 
educators to integrate GenAI ethically and with transparency. Acknowledgements
The authors thank all of the students who participated in the research.
Author contributions
The  editors  list  the  following  CRediT  contributions. Rose:  conceptualisation,  methodology, validation, writing — original draft, writing — review and editing, Taylor: conceptualisation, methodology, validation, writing — original draft, writing — review and editing, supervision, Pheiffer: conceptualisation, methodology, validation writing — review and editing, Fortune: conceptualisation, methodology, validation, writing — review and editing, Wilde: investigation, data curation, writing — original draft.
Disclosure statement
No potential conflict of interest was reported by the author(s).
Availability of data and materials
Data for this research can be made available on request to the corresponding author.
ORCID
Sarah E. Rose  http://orcid.org/0000-0002-1658-3568 Louise Taylor  http://orcid.org/0000-0002-8754-9957 Gary Pheiffer  http://orcid.org/0000-0002-3001-7052 Zoe Fortune  http://orcid.org/0000-0002-6620-1564 Natalie Wilde  http://orcid.org/0009-0000-1829-4906
References
Ali, N., L. Ahmed, and S. Rose. 2018.  Identifying Predictors of Students  Perception of and 
Engagement  with  Assessment  Feedback.   Active  Learning  in  Higher  Education  19  (3): 239—251. https://doi.org/10.1177/1469787417735609.
Ajjawi,  R.,  and  D.  Boud. 2018.  Examining  the  Nature  and  Effects  of  Feedback  Dialogue.  
Assessment  &  Evaluation  in  Higher  Education  43  (7):  1106—1119. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 02602938.2018.1434128.
Ajjawi, R., E. Molloy, M. Bearman, and C. Rees. 2022. Feedback in Higher Education: A Critical 
Perspective. London: Routledge.
Boud, D., and E. Molloy. 2013.  Rethinking Models of Feedback for Learning: The Challenge 
of Design.  Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education 38 (6): 698—712. https://doi.org/ 10.1080/02602938.2012.691462.
Braun, V., and V. Clarke. 2025.  Reporting Guidelines for Qualitative Research: A Values-Based 
Approach.   Qualitative  Research  in  Psychology  22  (2):  399—438. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 14780887.2024.2382244.
Braun, V., and V. Clarke. 2022. Thematic Analysis: A Practical Guide. London: Sage.
Carless, D. 2022.  From Teacher Transmission of Information to Student Feedback Literacy: 
Activating  the  Learner  Role  in  Feedback  Processes.  Active  Learning  in  Higher  Education 23 (2): 143—153. https://doi.org/10.1177/1469787420945845.
Carless,  D.,  and  D.  Boud. 2018.  The  Development  of  Student  Feedback  Literacy:  Enabling 
Uptake  of  Feedback.   Assessment  &  Evaluation  in  Higher  Education  43  (8):  1315—1325. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2018.1463354.
Corbin,  T.,  J.  Tai,  and  G.  Flenady. 2025.  Understanding  the  Place  and  Value  of  GenAI 
Feedback: A Recognition-Based Framework.  Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education 50 (5): 718—731. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2025.2459641.
Dai, Wei, Yi-Shan Tsai, Jionghao Lin, Ahmad Aldino, Hua Jin, Tongguang Li, Dragan Gašević, 
and  Guanliang  Chen.  2024.  Assessing  the  Proficiency  of  Large  Language  Models  in Automatic Feedback Generation: An Evaluation Study.  Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence 7: 100299. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2024.100299.
Er, E., G. Ak apınar, A. Bayazıt, O. Noroozi, and S. K. Banihashem. 2025.  Assessing Student 
Perceptions  and  Use  of  Instructor  versus  AI-Generated  Feedback.   British  Journal  of Educational Technology 56 (3): 1074—1091. https://doi.org/10.1111/bjet.13558.
Est vez-Ayres,  I.,  P.  Callejo,  M.  .  Hombrados-Herrera,  C.  Alario-Hoyos,  and  C.  Delgado 
Kloos. 2025.  Evaluation of LLM Tools for Feedback Generation in a Course on Concurrent Programming.   International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education 35 (2): 774—790. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40593-024-00406-0.
Escalante,  J.,  A.  Pack,  and  A.  Barrett. 2023.  AI-Generated  Feedback  on  Writing:  Insights 
into Efficacy and ENL Student Preference.  International Journal of Educational Technology in Higher Education 20 (1). https://doi.org/10.1186/s41239-023-00425-2.
Funa, A. A., and R. A. E. Gabay. 2025.  Policy Guidelines and Recommendations on AI Use 
in  Teaching  and  Learning:  A  Meta-Synthesis  Study.  Social  Sciences  &  Humanities  Open 11: 101221. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssaho.2024.101221.
Guingrich, R. E., and M. S. Graziano. 2025.  P (Doom) versus AI Optimism: Attitudes toward 
Artificial Intelligence and the Factors That Shape Them.  Journal of Technology in Behavioral Science 10 (4): 686—704. https://doi.org/10.1007/s41347-025-00512-3.
Hattie, J., and H. Timperley. 2007.  The Power of Feedback.  Review of Educational Research 
77 (1): 81—112. https://doi.org/10.3102/003465430298487.
Henderson,  M.,  M.  Bearman,  J.  Chung,  T.  Fawns,  S.  Buckingham  Shum,  K.  E.  Matthews, 
and J. de Mello Heredia. 2025.  Comparing Generative AI and Teacher Feedback: Student Perceptions  of  Usefulness  and  Trustworthiness.   Assessment  &  Evaluation  in  Higher Education: 1—16. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2025.2502582.
Henderson,  M.,  T.  Ryan,  and  M.  Phillips. 2019.  The  Challenges  of  Feedback  in  Higher 
Education.   Assessment  &  Evaluation  in  Higher  Education  44  (8):  1237—1252. https://doi. org/10.1080/02602938.2019.1599815.
Jonsson,  A. 2013.  Facilitating  Productive  Use  of  Feedback  in  Higher  Education.   Active 
Learning in Higher Education 14 (1): 63—76. https://doi.org/10.1177/1469787412467125. Lee, S. S., and R. L. Moore. 2024.  Harnessing Generative AI (GenAI) for Automated Feedback 
in  Higher  Education:  A  Systematic  Review.  Online  Learning  28  (3):  82—104. https://doi.
org/10.24059/olj.v28i3.4593.
Lipnevich,  A.  A.,  and  J.  K.  Smith. 2022.  Student—Feedback  Interaction  Model:  Revised.  
Studies in Educational Evaluation 75: 101208. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.stueduc.2022.101208.
Karan, B., and C. Chakma. 2026.  Influence of Higher Education Students  Perceived Behaviour 
on Their Artificial Intelligence Acceptance: An Empirical Investigation Using Technology Acceptance  Model.   Journal  of  Applied  Research  in  Higher  Education  18  (3):  745—760. https://doi.org/10.1108/JARHE-11-2023-0535.
Molloy, E., D. Boud, and M. Henderson. 2020.  Developing a Learning-Centred Framework 
for  Feedback  Literacy.  Assessment  &  Evaluation  in  Higher  Education  45  (4):  527—540. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2019.1667955.
Nicol,  D. 2010.  From  Monologue  to  Dialogue:  Improving  Written  Feedback  Processes  in 
Mass  Higher  Education.   Assessment  &  Evaluation  in  Higher  Education  35  (5):  501—517. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602931003786559.
Playfoot,  D.,  R.  Horry,  and  A.  E.  Pink. 2025.  What s  the  Use  of  Being  Nice?  Characteristics  of 
Feedback  Comments  That  Students  Intend  to  Use  in  Improving  Their  Work.   Assessment  & 
Evaluation in Higher Education 50 (2): 187—198. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2024.2373799. Rose, S. E., L. Taylor, and S. E. Jones. 2025.  Perceptions of Feedback and Engagement with 
Feedback  among  Undergraduates:  An  Educational  Identities  Approach.   Assessment  & 
Evaluation  in  Higher  Education  50  (2):  266—278. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2024. 
2390933.
Stein,  J.  P.,  T.  Messingschlager,  T.  Gnambs,  F.  Hutmacher,  and  M.  Appel. 2024.  Attitudes 
towards  AI:  Measurement  and  Associations  with  Personality.   Scientific  Reports  14  (1): 2909. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-53335-2.
Van der Kleij, F. M., and A. A. Lipnevich. 2021.  Student Perceptions of Assessment Feedback: 
A Critical Scoping Review and Call for Research.  Educational Assessment, Evaluation and Accountability 33 (2): 345—373. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11092-020-09331-x.
Venter, J., S. A. Coetzee, and A. Schmulian. 2025.  Exploring the Use of Artificial Intelligence 
(AI) in the Delivery of Effective Feedback.  Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education 50 (4): 516—536. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2024.2415649.
Winstone, N. E., and R. A. Nash. 2023.  Toward a Cohesive Psychological Science of Effective 
Feedback.   Educational  Psychologist  58  (3):  111—129. https://doi.org/10.1080/00461520.202 3.2224444.
Winstone, N. E., R. A. Nash, M. Parker, and J. Rowntree. 2017.  Supporting Learners  Agentic 
Engagement with Feedback: A Systematic Review and a Taxonomy of Recipience Processes.  
Educational Psychologist 52 (1): 17—37. https://doi.org/10.1080/00461520.2016.1207538.Wisniewski,  B.,  K.  Zierer,  and  J.  Hattie. 2019.  The  Power  of  Feedback  Revisited:  A 
Meta-Analysis of Educational Feedback Research.  Frontiers in Psychology 10: 3087. https://
doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2019.03087.
Zhan,  Y.,  and  Z.  Yan. 2025.  Students   Engagement  with  ChatGPT  Feedback:  Implications 
for Student Feedback Literacy in the Context of Generative Artificial Intelligence.  Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education: 1—14. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2025.2471821.
Zhang, K., S. Li, and Y. Huang. 2026.  Generative AI-Driven Feedback in Higher Education: 
A  Scoping  Review.  Assessment  &  Evaluation  in  Higher  Education,  1—18. https://doi.org/1
0.1080/02602938.2026.2617157.
