The Impact of AI Literacy on Academic Misconduct: What Works in the AI World to Ensure Learning and Integrity

Abstract
Keywords: AI Literacy; Academic Misconduct; Conceptions of Assessment; Academic Integrity; 

1. Introduction



2. Study 1: The Impact of Generative AI on Academic Misconduct: A Theoretical Model of GAI Academic Misconduct

Abstract

2.1. Introduction
The study of academic misconduct spans generations and has a long history in the psychology literature (McCabe et al., 2001). The prevalence of students engaging in academically dishonest behaviors is alarmingly high (Rettinger et al., 2024), prompting a response from the research com-munity to better understand these behaviors and to reduce their occurrence. Although the total number of students who acknowledge misconduct has remained relatively stable, the amount of misconduct has grown dramatically (Lee et al., 2024; Newton, 2018). This increase in frequency points to a pressing need to understand the personal and contextual factors that underpin academic cheating. A number of theoretical explanations for cheating have been offered, which help to inform efforts to develop programming, interventions, and policies designed to reduce and prevent cheating, especially the most serious offenses.

These theoretical explanations have included examinations of institutional climate (Scanlan, 2006), motivational achievement goal structures (Anderman & Koenka, 2017), peer norms (McCabe et al., 2001), and moral attitudes (Lee et al., 2020). The reason these four theories are of interest is because all share a common assumption that academic dishonesty is inherently wrong and problematic (Murdock & Stephens, 2007), that social context plays a role (Macfarlane et al., 2014), and that students can deliberately choose to engage in academically dishonest behaviors (Kolb et al., 2015; MacGregor & Stuebs, 2012; Putarek & Pavlin-Bernardić, 2020). However, these theories potentially yield differing results because they differ on the psychological mechanisms through which students come to the decision to cheat.

Importantly, little research has been undertaken to examine models based on AI literacy and these differing theoretical explanations in concert. Often, these models are examined in isolation (e.g., Bertram Gallant, 2017; Curtis & Clare, 2024; Macfarlane et al., 2014). However, there is an increasing need to examine academic integrity from a multitheoretical approach. Similar efforts have been proposed in the areas of motivation, personality, and development (Dweck, 2017). Combining approaches and examining academic integrity from multiple perspectives simultaneously allows for a more thorough understanding of the antecedents, mechanisms, and consequences of academic misconduct.

As such, the current investigation was an attempt to examine the dynamic interplay of these models of cheating to better capture the nuanced underpinnings for why and when students cheat in college. We take a psychometric approach to examining this issue by validating measures associated with the four selected theoretical explanations for cheating and then assess the analytical capabilities of each theoretical approach both separately and combined.

2.2. Literature Review and Hypothesis

2.2.1. AI Literacy (AIL) Analytical Model
The increasing incorporation of AI into teaching and learning environments has sparked interest in AI literacy (Al-Abdullatif & Alsubaie, 2024; B. Wang et al., 2023). One approach to AI education is to improve AI literacy (Casal-Otero et al., 2023; Chung et al., 2025). Nevertheless, the effective classroom integration of AI demands that student be AI-literate, encompassing understanding, utilization, monitoring, and critical reflection on AI applications in teaching (Ding et al., 2024).

AI literacy is a newly emerging concept that seeks to define, teach, and evaluate knowledge and skills related to AI. AI literacy refers to an individual’s ability to comprehend, utilize, monitor, and critically evaluate AI applications, even without the ability to develop AI models. Furthermore, it encompasses the ability to observe, ethically use, and critically evaluate AI applications and AI-generated content and their implications without necessarily having programming knowledge. AI literacy encompasses the competencies that enable individuals to critically evaluate AI technologies and leverage them for effective communication and collaboration (Long & Magerko, 2020; Wu et al., 2024). This concept entails the design and implementation of AI learning activities, tools, applications, and pedagogical models (Wu et al., 2024; Yim & Su, 2024).

The term “AI literacy” was first coined by Burgsteiner et al. (2016) and Kandlhofer et al. (2016), who described the competencies required to understand the basic knowledge and concepts of AI and to use AI technologies. In addition, Long and Magerko (2020) defined it as a set of competencies that enables individuals to critically evaluate, communicate, and collaborate effectively with AI and use it as a tool, online, at home, and in the workplace. Furthermore, Ng et al. (2021b, 2021a) added AI to every student’s AI literacy in work settings and everyday life and proposed it as a fundamental skill for everyone, not just computer scientists. He incorporated the model of Bloom’s Taxonomy, Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge (TPACK), and AI concepts, practices, and perspectives into the instructional design of AI literacy education (Ng et al., 2021b, 2021a).

Carolus et al. (2023) stated that AI literacy covers “competencies needed to interact with AI technology in a self-determined and rational manner.” Pinski and Benlian (2023) provided a definition of General AI literacy, describing it ashumans “socio-technical competence consisting of knowledge regarding human and AI actors in human-AI interaction, knowledge of the AI process steps, that is, input, processing, and output, and experience in AI interaction.” Laupichler et al. (2023) define the concept of AI literacy as “competencies that include basic knowledge and analytical evaluation of AI, in addition to the critical use of AI applications by ordinary non-expert individuals.” They did not include (programming skills) in their definitions because they considered them a separate set of competencies beyond AI literacy (Laupichler et al., 2023).

Recently, several studies have developed AI literacy frameworks for education (Kong et al., 2023; Ng et al., 2021b; Wong et al., 2020). AI literacy does not require detailed technical expertise in AI applications. However, it spans four dimensions: understanding and comprehension of AI, practical application of AI, assessment of AI applications, and ethical considerations of AI (L. Zhao et al., 2022).

Long and Magerko (2020) provided a conceptual framework of AI literacy composed of five overarching themes derived from the literature (Long & Magerko, 2020).Wang et al. (2023) proposed a theoretical framework to conceptualize AI Literacy, comprising four constructs: Usage, defined as the ability to exploit AI technology to proficiently perform tasks; Awareness, the ability to identify and comprehend AI systems during interactions; Evaluation, the capacity to critically analyze and assess AI applications and their outcomes; and Ethics, which involves recognizing responsibilities and risks associated with using AI systems. Kong et al. (2023) designed an AI literacy framework, including cognitive, affective, and sociocultural. Ng et al. (2021b) developed an AI literacy TPACK framework that includes four dimensions: (1) knowing and understanding AI (knowing the basic functions of AI and how to use AI applications); (2) using and applying AI (applying AI knowledge, concepts, and applications in different scenarios); (3) evaluating and creating AI (higher-order thinking skills with AI applications); and (4) AI ethics (human-centered considerations). These dimensions offer a comprehensive framework that supports the development of AI literacy and enables AI integration into education (Su & Yang, 2024).

Despite the growing body of research on AI Literacy, significant gaps remain (Lu et al., 2024). Most studies have relied on qualitative methodologies or small-scale quantitative analyses (Ng et al., 2021b, 2023; Schiavo et al., 2024; Su et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2024), limiting our understanding of the broader implementation and effectiveness of AI education (Ng et al., 2021b, 2023; Schiavo et al., 2024; Su et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2024). A significant majority (75 %) of the papers pertaining to AI literacy have focused on students (Al-Abdullatif, 2024; Almatrafi et al., 2024; Ng et al., 2023), while few have focused on student (An et al., 2023; Liang et al., 2023).

Therefore, student must understand what AI is and what it can do inside and outside the classroom, and engage with AI technologies in a self-determined manner. These sets of skills, including understanding, utilizing, and integrating various AI technologies to enhance teaching methods, facilitate student learning, and improve overall educational outcomes, are commonly referred to as AI literacy (Carolus et al., 2023).

2.2.2. Academic Misconduct (AM)
Academic misconduct refers to behavior that violates the standards of honesty, fairness, and responsibility expected in academic work (Stephens, 2019). It has been operationalized in the literature as a multidimensional behavioral construct spanning collusion (e.g., unpermitted collaboration on individual assignments), misuse of resources (e.g., plagiarism, unauthorized use of materials), and fraud and contract cheating (Perry et al., 2026; Rettinger et al., 2024; Stephens et al., 2024). The emergence of GenAI tools has introduced new and complex forms of misconduct—including submitting AI-generated content as one's own work and using AI paraphrasing tools to disguise plagiarism—that blur the lines between legitimate AI assistance and academic fraud (Gruenhagen et al., 2024; Xia et al., 2024).

Scholars have approached academic misconduct from multiple perspectives. Stephens (2019) characterized the problem as epidemic in scale, noting that the majority of tertiary students globally report having cheated at least once during their studies, with this rate remaining remarkably stable across five decades and numerous countries. From a moral-psychological perspective, Stephens (2018) demonstrated that misconduct is driven not primarily by moral ignorance but by moral disengagement—students who cheat frequently possess accurate moral knowledge but use self-exculpatory rationalizations, such as blaming the instructor or normalizing the behavior among peers, to neutralize their ethical standards in specific situations. At a multi-level theoretical level, Perry et al. (2026) found that moral attitudes, institutional climate, and peer norms each contribute unique variance to misconduct, and that no single explanatory factor is sufficient on its own, confirming that academic misconduct is a multiply determined behavioral outcome.

Prevalence data underscore the scale of the problem. A nationwide New Zealand survey of 4,493 undergraduates found that approximately two-thirds (64.8%) reported at least one act of academic misconduct in the preceding year, with unauthorized collaboration being the most common behavior (Stephens et al., 2024). That survey incorporated the first items capturing AI-facilitated misconduct and found an initial 14.8% self-reported prevalence rate—likely a significant underestimate given that data collection concluded just two months before ChatGPT's public release (Stephens et al., 2024). Subsequent studies have confirmed that AI-facilitated misconduct is rapidly increasing and that many students do not recognize unauthorized AI assistance as a breach of academic integrity, highlighting the urgent need for research on the individual factors that shape these misconduct decisions (Gruenhagen et al., 2024; Lund et al., 2025).

Despite extensive research, significant gaps remain. Most existing studies predate the widespread availability of GenAI tools and therefore do not capture its most emergent forms of dishonest behavior (Lund et al., 2025; Perkins et al., 2024). Moreover, while moral attitudes and peer norms have been identified as predictors, the role of AI literacy—specifically whether higher AI literacy leads to more ethical decision-making around GenAI use—has not been empirically tested (Ng et al., 2021b; Stephens et al., 2024). Research from Chinese higher education contexts is particularly sparse, leaving open how cultural assessment norms and institutional factors moderate the AI literacy–misconduct relationship (Brown & Wang, 2016; Zhao et al., 2020). The most psychometrically validated instrument for measuring academic misconduct is the McCabe-ICAI Academic Misconduct Instrument (MIAMI; Rettinger et al., 2024), which assesses three behavioral factors—Collusion, Misuse of Resources, and Fraud/Contract Cheating—validated in large-scale multinational samples and supplemented with AI-specific misconduct items in recent adaptations (Perry et al., 2026; Stephens et al., 2024).

2.2.3. Institutional Climate (IC) Analytical Model
An institution with a strong climate of academic integrity has a culture that supports academic integrity. Academic integrity climate manifests through both formal policies, such as an honor code (Tatum, 2022), attitudes toward academic integrity, student knowledge and acceptance of academic integrity policies (Jordan, 2001; Young et al., 2018), as well as faculty knowledge and support of academic integrity policies (McCabe & Treviño, 1993). Students’ understanding and acceptance of an academic integrity policy is strongly and negatively associated with academic misconduct (Jordan, 2001), and students who attend schools with an honor code report more knowledge and a better understanding of the academic integrity policy and perceive less cheating overall than students at institutions without an honor code (McCabe et al., 2012).

Faculty play an integral role in creating and supporting the academic climate surrounding academic integrity (McCabe et al., 2012). Students report fewer academic misconduct behaviors when they believe they will face consequences and that the consequences will be significant (Miller et al., 2011). Students are less likely to cheat on homework when they are reminded of an institution-wide honor code and even less so when that reminder is combined with a warning about specific consequences of cheating (Bing et al., 2012). The academic integrity climate at schools with an honor code may explain why there is generally less self-reported cheating at honor code schools when compared to those without an honor code (McCabe & Treviño, 1993).

Campus climate also encompasses students’ beliefs about the prevalence of misconduct at their institution. Climate is distinct from peer norms, because climate refers to a nebulous belief about the behaviors of others, rather than specific, experience-based perceptions. Students who believe there is more misconduct are more likely to engage in it themselves (O’Rourke et al., 2010). The role of the academic integrity climate in determining students’ attitudes toward academic misconduct and misconduct behavior in combination with other factors, such as peer attitudes and behaviors, requires further investigation.

2.2.4. Motivational Achievement Goal Structures (MAGS) Analytical Model
Achievement goal theory is an empirically supported framework for examining motivation to engage in various tasks (Kaplan & Maehr, 2007; Urdan & Kaplan, 2020). The theory has been applied widely in many areas, including social psychology (e.g., Chu & Zhang, 2018), sports psychology (e.g., Cury et al., 2006), and education (e.g., Anderman & Wolters, 2006). The theory posits that when an individual is engaged with a task (e.g., an academic assignment), engagement is guided by the goal(s) that the individual is pursuing.

Achievement goals have been operationalized differently by various researchers, but the most widely accepted model includes four primary goals, including two types of mastery goals and two types of performance goals (Elliot & McGregor, 2001). A student who holds a mastery-approach goal when engaging with a task has the goal of truly mastering that task, whereas a student who holds a mastery-avoidance goal is focused on avoiding misunderstanding the task. In contrast, a student who holds a performance-approach goal is focused on demonstrating their ability at a task in comparison to others, whereas a student who holds a performance-avoidance goal is focused on not appearing “dumb” or incompetent when engaged with a task.

Achievement goals have been investigated with regard to how they are reflected in an educator’s instructional practices. Students’ perceptions of instructional practices from a goal theory perspective have been conceptualized as goal structures (Kaplan et al., 2002). Goal structures have been conceptualized in a variety of ways. Students are more likely to report perceiving a mastery goal structure in a class when they perceive the instructor as emphasizing mastery of content such as emphasizing the importance of effort, taking the time needed to deeply understand the class material, and giving permission to embrace making mistakes during learning as an important part of the learning process (Meece et al., 2006). Students are likely to report perceiving a performance goal structure when their instructor is perceived as emphasizing differences in students’ abilities (e.g., by publicly sharing exam scores), and making it obvious when students are not doing well in class. Some researchers have more specifically operationalized perceived performance goal structures in terms of extrinsic outcomes (i.e., an extrinsic goal structure); students report perceiving an extrinsic goal structure in a class if they perceive the instructor as emphasizing the importance of tests and grades, and spending a lot of time talking about tests and assessments (e.g., Won et al., 2020).

There is now a fairly extensive body of research that indicates that perceived goal structures are related in predictable ways to academic misconduct (Murdock & Anderman, 2006). This research indicates that students’ perceptions of an instructor’s focus on mastery of content and/or on performance and grades are related to academic cheating. In particular, research indicates that a perceived mastery goal structure is negatively correlated with academic cheating (e.g., Anderman & Midgley, 2004; Anderman et al., 1998; Krou et al., 2021; Murdock et al., 2004). Most research on the relations between achievement goal structures and academic integrity has focused on perceptions of an extrinsic goal structure (as opposed to a performance goal structure), with results indicating a greater likelihood of cheating occurring in classrooms perceived as emphasizing extrinsic outcomes (e.g., Anderman & Midgley, 2004; Anderman et al., 1998; Murdock et al., 2001).

2.2.5. Peer Norms (PN) Analytical Model
Peer norms and behaviors, as well as perceptions of peer behaviors and attitudes, are consistently correlated with academic misconduct. Students use examples of their peers’ behaviors to regulate their own actions, and when they observe their peers engaging in academic misconduct, they are more likely to engage in similar behavior (O’Rourke et al., 2010). Researchers have utilized several theories to explain the influence of peers on academic cheating including social learning theory and neutralization theory. Regardless of the theoretical explanations, students’ perceptions of their peers’ behaviors are one of the most influential factors related to academic cheating. In a recent meta-analysis, Zhao and colleagues (2022) demonstrated that the perception that one’s peers are cheating is one of the strongest predictors of academic cheating among students. Their analysis of the perceived peer cheating effect included 38 studies conducted over an 80-year span and included multiple countries and over 24,000 students. They found the effect size to be moderate, which is stronger than most other predictors of academic cheating. The perceived peer cheating effect is stronger in collectivist cultures, which may be due to how strongly students value their peers’ opinions, fear disagreement, experience pressure to conform, and demonstrate respect for authority.

Peer behavior can also have an exponential effect on cheating. In a retrospective study of students from three U.S. military academies, Carrell et al. (2008) established strong effects of peer influence on self-reported cheating. They used four-year cohorts rather than graduating year data to help reduce response bias among participants. Individuals’ probability of cheating significantly increased as the number of peer cheaters increased even when they corrected for selection bias, school, and time.

The role of peers is central to the study of academic integrity. When students believe that their peers would disapprove of academic misconduct, they are less likely to engage in cheating behaviors (McCabe et al., 2012). At some institutions, students are encouraged or even required to report instances of academic misconduct. Carrell et al. (2008) found that the military academies with the highest levels of peer reporting of academic misconduct had the lowest levels of self-reported cheating. Although their sample was derived from military academies which may have a peer culture that deviates radically from other types of colleges and universities, their findings are consistent with previous studies including McCabe and Treviño’s (1993) seminal work that established that peers’ behaviors, and the certainty of being reported by a peer for cheating, are strong predictors of academic misconduct.

2.2.6. Moral Attitudes (MA) Analytical Model
Students’ moral attitudes have long been theorized to be important factors in explaining academic misconduct. Students’ beliefs about the morality or ethical acceptability of cheating behavior and their “disengagement” or “neutralization” of responsibility for engagement in it have been two of the most widely studied types of moral attitudes. The former is theorized to oblige a course of action (e.g., if one believes cheating to be morally wrong, then one should not cheat), while the latter serves to reduce or negate culpability for engagement in behavior one believes to be morally wrong (e.g., Ajzen, 1991; Bandura, 1990; Stephens, 2017; Sykes & Matza, 1957).

Research on these moral attitudes has yielded a consistent pattern of results: Students’ beliefs about the immorality of cheating have been negatively associated with self-reported cheating (e.g., Anderman et al., 1998; McCabe et al., 2012; Stephens et al., 2007) while their tendency for moral disengagement a positive predictor of it (Farnese et al., 2011; Haines et al., 1986; O’Rourke et al., 2010; Stephens, 2018). Put another way, the more that students believe that cheating is morally unacceptable, the less likely they are to engage in academic misconduct (Stephens et al., 2007). However, the more that students morally disengage or have neutralizing attitudes about cheating, the more likely they are to engage in those behaviors (O’Rourke et al., 2010). These remain powerful indicators of students’ tendencies to cheat in college.

2.2.7. The Relationship Between AI Literacy and Academic Misconduct
The purpose of the current study is to examine the role of AI Literacy and four analytical models of academic misconduct based on the four theories in predicting academic misconduct among undergraduate college students. Importantly, each theory was examined separately and then all together. This was to ascertain the unique contribution of each analytical model, and then the predictive utility of all models being analyzed together simultaneously. The findings of the present study will help to further explain and hopefully reduce academic misconduct in higher education. We expected the findings to be in line with past studies of academic integrity, though we had no a priori expectations for the combined model as no past studies have examined all four models at once, and therefore, it is unknown how the constructs will operate when controlling for each other. Specifically, we hypothesized the following:

H1. AI Literacy has a significant negative effect on Academic Misconduct.
H2. Institutional Climate has a significant negative effect on Academic Misconduct.
H3. Motivational Achievement Goal Structures has a significant negative effect on Academic Misconduct.
H4. Peer Norms has a significant negative effect on Academic Misconduct.
H5. Moral Attitudes has a significant negative effect on Academic Misconduct.

The research model based on these hypotheses is illustrated in Fig. 1.


Fig. 1.

Research hypothesis model

2.3. Methodology

2.3.1 Sample
Hancock and Feng’s (2026) nmax calculator was applied to evaluate whether the sample size was sufficient for SEM. Assuming a minimum standardized path coefficient of γ = 0.20 and moderate multicollinearity among predictors (ρc = 0.30), the required minimum sample size is 213. Considering an anticipated longitudinal attrition rate of 20% across the three waves of data collection, consistent with prior three-wave AI literacy research (Liu et al., 2026), the final required sample size at T1 will be at least 267 participants to ensure a fully matched, valid sample of no fewer than 213 by T3.

2.3.2. Demographics
A total of X university students from various universities in China willingly participated in this study.

2.3.3. Measures
To measure the level of student’ AI literacy, Zhao et al.’s (2022) scale was AI literacy. The scale included 20 items that sought to collect information on four separate dimensions of student’ AI literacy: Knowing and Understanding AI (KUAI), Applying AI (AAI), Evaluating AI Application (EAIA), and AI Ethics (AIE).

We will use a newly revised version of the McCabe academic integrity measure (The McCabe-ICAI Academic Misconduct Instrument [MIAMI]; Rettinger et al., 2024). Participants were asked to indicate how often, in the past 12 months, they engaged in a variety of academically dishonest behaviors. Responses were on a 0–4 scale (0 = Never, 1 = Once, 2 = 2–4 times, 3 = 5–10 times, 4 = 11 or more times) with “not applicable to my program” as an additional option. There were 24 items included initially.

Academic integrity climate will assess via a measure adapted from previous literature (McCabe et al., 2012; Rettinger et al., 2024) that measured students’ knowledge of and attitudes toward the academic integrity policy at their institution. The original measure included Likert type response scales as well as dichotomous options (i.e. yes/no). We will utilize 22 self-report items that assessed college students’ perceptions of the academic integrity climate at their institution on a five-point Likert scale from (0) Strongly Disagree to (4) Strongly Agree. 

Perceptions of achievement goal structures were measured via items adapted from Midgley et al. (1998). Participants will rate their perceptions of instructors’ emphasis on mastery of content/mastery goal structure on a five-point Likert type scale from (0) not at all true to (4) very true (4 items; e.g., “My professors believe that it’s important to understand the work, not just to memorize it”). Using the same scale, they also will rate their perception of instructors’ emphasis on the importance of grades and test scores/extrinsic goal structure (3 items; e.g., “My professors emphasize the importance of test scores”). 

Two aspects of peer norms related to academic misconduct – attitudes and behaviors – will assess with measures adapted from McCabe and Treviño (1993) and Stephens et al. (2007). Perceptions of peer disapproval of misconduct will assess using a five-point Likert type scale from (0) Strongly Disagree to (4) Strongly Agree, with five items (e.g., “If I cheated on a test or exam, my friends would be really disappointed in me”). Perceptions of peers’ academic misconduct will assess by asking participants to indicate how often they had “observed or had direct knowledge of students at [their] school/college/university” engaging in nine behaviors using five items (
e.g., “Using unauthorized notes or sources during a test or exam”) with a five-point scale ranging from (0) never to (4) 11 or more times. Both aspects of peer norms (attitudes and behaviors) will enter into a two-factor CFA.

Students’ beliefs about the moral unacceptability of academic misconduct will assess with an adapted version of the McCabe et al. (2012) measure. Replacing the original rating of “seriousness,” our participants will ask to use a five-point scale to rate each behavior from (0) not at all morally/ ethically wrong to (4) completely morally/ethically wrong. The behaviors included eight items yolked to the MIAMI described above (e.g., “Getting questions or answers from someone who has already taken a test or exam”).

2.3.4. Data collection
Data for this study were collected using a three-wave longitudinal tracking design. A self-reported method was employed to survey students' AI literacy, academic misconduct, conceptions of assessment, and academic integrity at three time points. The research team implemented strategies such as securing college support, providing guidance, and offering appropriate incentives to effectively control attrition rates. To reduce common method bias associated with self-reported data, no identifying information will be collected across the three waves. Participants are provided with private spaces to complete the questionnaires, sufficient time for completion, and assurance that the data would be used solely for research purposes, thereby ensuring anonymity, confidentiality, and data validity. Sample attrition in this study was primarily due to invalid responses. Invalid questionnaires were excluded based on criteria such as substantial missing data, patterned responses, abnormal completion time, or illogical answers.

This study employs a time-lagged research design for data collection and conducted three waves of questionnaire surveys to reduce the potential influence of common method bias to some extent (Yu et al., 2021).

The interval between each wave of data collection is two months. Each questionnaires will be distributed and collected on-site through an online survey platform. To ensure longitudinal matching across the three waves of data collection, participants will be assigned a unique anonymous identification number (ID), which was retained in T2 and T3 to ensure rigor and traceability.

During data processing, only questionnaires that are successfully matched across all three waves and fully complete are retained for analysis. Responses that could not be matched longitudinally or contained missing data were excluded. Based on the anticipated attrition rate, the final valid, fully matched sample retained across all three waves is expected to meet or exceed the required minimum sample size of 213 participants determined by the nmax approach. Finally, we use a three-wave time-lagged design to keep a temporal separation between predictors and outcomes (Podsakoff et al., 2012).

2.3.5. Data Analysis Procedure
The study employee a structural equation modelling (SEM) approach using RStudio (version 2026.07.1). Data are collected via an online survey and analyzed using RStudio software. RStudio will be used to analyze the data through a Structural Equation Modelling (SEM) approach, including the measurement model, structural model, and Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA). 

First, the variables are examined for outliers using z-values. To describe the data, we utilize the “psych” and “dplyr” packages (Revelle, 2026; Wickham et al., 2014). For the main analysis, which involves Structural Equation Modeling (SEM), we will employ the “lavaan” package and the “semPlot” package (Epskamp, 2015; Revelle, 2026). The Lavaan package will be used to define the measurement model and to conduct multigroup CFA and main effects SEM models, while the Modsem package will be used to test the multigroup interaction SEM model (Rosseel, 2012; Slupphaug et al., 2025). Model fits are evaluated with the robust comparative fit index (CFI), robust root mean square error of approximation (RMSEA), and standardized root mean square residual (SRMR).

CFA will be conducted with initial data collected from students to assess the structural or factorial validity of the Questionnaire. CFA is chosen because of its unique ability to explore the causal relationships among latent and observed variables in pre-defined, theory-derived models (Tavakol & Wetzel, 2020). CFA was conducted from the lavaan package in R (Rosseel, 2012). Before conducting CFA, data screening procedures will be conducted, including the examination of missing data, outliers, and univariate and multivariate normality.

SEM will be conducted through the following steps: model specification, model identification, model estimation, model testing, and model modification (Schumacker & Lomax, 2015). The model is specified and identified based on the conceptual framework outlined in the literature section. A bootstrapping method with robust maximum likelihood estimation will be used for model estimation. Robust maximum likelihood estimation with bootstrapped standard errors was selected, rather than PLS-SEM, because this combination maintains stable and unbiased parameter estimates even at moderate sample sizes, without the interpretive limitations associated with PLS-based composite modeling (Schumacker & Lomax, 2015). Initially, the measurement model estimations will confirm that all factor loadings are significant. Subsequently, model fit indices will be examined. We use Chi-square, CFI, TLI, RMSEA, and SRMR as fit indices. For a good model fit, CFI and TLI values should be 0.90 or above, while RMSEA and SRMR values should be below 0.08 (Schumacker & Lomax, 2015). The mediation analysis using structural equation modeling (SEM) with the lavaan package in RStudio is utilized to examine the direct, indirect, and total effects. After evaluating the path coefficients, the results will be reported.


3. Study 2: The Impact of AI Literacy on Academic Integrity: The Mediating Role of Conceptions of Assessment and Feedback Literacy

Abstract
As generative AI (GenAI) tools become increasingly embedded in higher education, concerns about AI-facilitated academic misconduct have escalated rapidly. This study addresses a significant gap by investigating the impact of AI Literacy (AIL) on Academic Misconduct (AM) among Chinese university students, with Conceptions of Assessment (CoA) and Academic Integrity (AI) as serial mediating variables. Grounded in Brown's (2011) Self-Regulation Model of Conceptions of Assessment and Rest's (1999) Four-Component Model of Moral Functioning, the proposed model posits that AI-literate students develop more adaptive beliefs about the genuine purpose of assessment, which in turn strengthen their commitment to academic integrity and ultimately reduce engagement in academic misconduct, including AI-facilitated forms. A quantitative cross-sectional survey design is employed, with data to be collected from Chinese university students and analyzed using RStudio. Findings are expected to illuminate the cognitive and moral pathways through which AI literacy shapes ethical academic behavior, providing empirically grounded guidance for universities seeking to foster cultures of integrity in the GenAI era.

3.1. Introduction
As an emerging field of computer science, artificial intelligence (AI) has profoundly impacted education (Celik, 2023; Montebello, 2018). Recently, there has been growing interest in exploring the interactions between people and AI and AI education systems. However, much of this interest has concentrated on AI's instructional and technical affordances, with comparatively little attention paid to the integrity- and assessment-related consequences of students' growing access to generative AI (GenAI) tools such as ChatGPT (Gruenhagen et al., 2024; Perkins et al., 2024). The rapid diffusion of GenAI into higher education has unsettled the traditional assumptions underlying assessment design, evaluation, and academic honesty (Gruenhagen et al., 2024; Xia et al., 2024). Indeed, more than a third of university students surveyed in Australia reported having used a chatbot for assistance with an assessment, and many of them did not regard this as a breach of academic integrity (Gruenhagen et al., 2024). This finding suggests that students' understanding of what counts as legitimate versus dishonest AI use—that is, their AI literacy—may be a critical yet underexamined antecedent of academic misconduct in the GenAI era.

The AI shift has generated challenges and opportunities for teaching and learning (Ding et al., 2024; Pan & Wang, 2025; Wijaya et al., 2024). The expansion of higher education and advanced technologies has intensified concerns about academic dishonesty (Shomotova et al., 2025). Although AI has great potential to facilitate learning, its integration into higher education settings generally requires students to navigate multilayered ethical decisions about legitimate and illegitimate AI use (Al-Abdullatif & Alsubaie, 2024; An et al., 2023). Academic misconduct—broadly defined as behavior that violates the standards of honesty and fairness expected in academic work—has long been recognized as a pervasive problem in higher education, with the majority of students in most countries admitting to having cheated at least once during their studies (Stephens, 2019; Stephens et al., 2024). A nationwide survey of 4,493 undergraduates in New Zealand found that approximately two-thirds reported engaging in at least one form of academic misconduct in the preceding year, and that students' moral attitudes toward cheating were significantly associated with their behavior (Stephens et al., 2024). At the same time, assessment scholars have long argued that how students conceive of the purposes of assessment shapes their self-regulatory responses and, by extension, their academic behavior (Brown, 2011, 2021; Brown & Wang, 2016; Zhao et al., 2020).

First, although the potential for AI-enhanced learning has grown rapidly, there is a notable lack of both theoretical and empirical research on AI Literacy in the context of academic integrity in higher education (Lu et al., 2024; Wu et al., 2024). While AI literacy has been theorized as encompassing an explicit ethics dimension (Long & Magerko, 2020; Ng et al., 2021b), empirical research has rarely tested whether this ethical-evaluative competence actually translates into more honest academic conduct when students use AI tools for their academic work (Lund et al., 2025; Perkins et al., 2024). Few studies have systematically examined how the ethics dimension of AI literacy shapes students' assessment beliefs and moral attitudes toward academic misconduct (Nabhan & Habók, 2026).

Second, although interest in AI Literacy is increasing, the precise relationship between AI literacy and academic misconduct remains largely unexplored. While conceptions of assessment have been extensively studied as antecedents of self-regulated learning and academic performance (Brown, 2011, 2021; Brown & Wang, 2016), and academic integrity has been studied as a predictor of academic misconduct (Perry et al., 2026; Stephens, 2018; Stephens et al., 2024), few studies have integrated these two well-established but largely separate literatures with the emerging literature on AI literacy into a single research framework capable of explaining the cognitive and moral pathways through which AI literacy shapes (dis)honest academic behavior. This integration is vital for understanding how students' AI-related competencies interact with their assessment beliefs and moral orientations to produce academic conduct decisions (Wu et al., 2024).

Although China has actively integrated AI tools into its higher education landscape, systematic empirical research on how Chinese university students' AI literacy relates to their academic conduct remains scarce (A. Zhao et al., 2020). Most existing studies have focused on students' technical AI competencies or pedagogical outcomes, leaving a notable gap regarding how AI literacy shapes assessment beliefs and integrity behaviors in a population where Confucian-heritage assessment norms and high-stakes institutional cultures further complicate the dynamics of academic misconduct (Brown & Wang, 2016; Zhao et al., 2020).

To address these identified research gaps, this study investigates the impact of AI Literacy (Independent Variable) on Academic Misconduct (Dependent Variable) through the mediating effects of Conceptions of Assessment and Academic Integrity (Mediator Variables) in a serial mediation research model. Based on Brown's (2011) Self-Regulation Model of Conceptions of Assessment and Rest's (1999) Four-Component Model of Moral Functioning, this study aims to bridge these gaps by investigating the interrelationships between these constructs among Chinese university students.

3.2. Literature Review and Hypothesis

3.2.1. AI Literacy (AIL)
The increasing incorporation of AI into teaching and learning environments has sparked interest in AI literacy (Al-Abdullatif & Alsubaie, 2024; B. Wang et al., 2023). One approach to AI education is to improve AI literacy (Casal-Otero et al., 2023; Chung et al., 2025). Nevertheless, the effective classroom integration of AI demands that student be AI-literate, encompassing understanding, utilization, monitoring, and critical reflection on AI applications in teaching (Ding et al., 2024).

AI literacy is a newly emerging concept that seeks to define, teach, and evaluate knowledge and skills related to AI. AI literacy refers to an individual’s ability to comprehend, utilize, monitor, and critically evaluate AI applications, even without the ability to develop AI models. Furthermore, it encompasses the ability to observe, ethically use, and critically evaluate AI applications and AI-generated content and their implications without necessarily having programming knowledge. AI literacy encompasses the competencies that enable individuals to critically evaluate AI technologies and leverage them for effective communication and collaboration (Long & Magerko, 2020; Wu et al., 2024). This concept entails the design and implementation of AI learning activities, tools, applications, and pedagogical models (Wu et al., 2024; Yim & Su, 2024).

The term “AI literacy” was first coined by Burgsteiner et al. (2016) and Kandlhofer et al. (2016), who described the competencies required to understand the basic knowledge and concepts of AI and to use AI technologies. In addition, Long and Magerko (2020) defined it as a set of competencies that enables individuals to critically evaluate, communicate, and collaborate effectively with AI and use it as a tool, online, at home, and in the workplace. Furthermore, Ng et al. (2021b, 2021a) added AI to every student’s AI literacy in study settings and everyday life and proposed it as a fundamental skill for everyone, not just computer scientists. He incorporated the model of Bloom’s Taxonomy, Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge (TPACK), and AI concepts, practices, and perspectives into the instructional design of AI literacy education (Ng et al., 2021b, 2021a). Carolus et al. (2023) stated that AI literacy covers “competencies needed to interact with AI technology in a self-determined and rational manner.” Pinski and Benlian (2023) provided a definition of General AI literacy, describing it ashumans “socio-technical competence consisting of knowledge regarding human and AI actors in human-AI interaction, knowledge of the AI process steps, that is, input, processing, and output, and experience in AI interaction.” 

Recently, several studies have developed AI literacy frameworks for education (Kong et al., 2023; Ng et al., 2021b; Wong et al., 2020). AI literacy does not require detailed technical expertise in AI applications. However, it spans four dimensions: understanding and comprehension of AI, practical application of AI, assessment of AI applications, and ethical considerations of AI (L. Zhao et al., 2022).

Long and Magerko (2020) provided a conceptual framework of AI literacy composed of five overarching themes derived from the literature (Long & Magerko, 2020).Wang et al. (2023) proposed a theoretical framework to conceptualize AI Literacy, comprising four constructs: Usage, defined as the ability to exploit AI technology to proficiently perform tasks; Awareness, the ability to identify and comprehend AI systems during interactions; Evaluation, the capacity to critically analyze and assess AI applications and their outcomes; and Ethics, which involves recognizing responsibilities and risks associated with using AI systems. Kong et al. (2023) designed an AI literacy framework, including cognitive, affective, and sociocultural. Ng et al. (2021b) developed an AI literacy TPACK framework that includes four dimensions: (1) knowing and understanding AI (knowing the basic functions of AI and how to use AI applications); (2) using and applying AI (applying AI knowledge, concepts, and applications in different scenarios); (3) evaluating and creating AI (higher-order thinking skills with AI applications); and (4) AI ethics (human-centered considerations). These dimensions offer a comprehensive framework that supports the development of AI literacy and enables AI integration into education (Su & Yang, 2024).

Despite the growing body of research on AI Literacy, significant gaps remain (Lu et al., 2024). Most studies have relied on qualitative methodologies or small-scale quantitative analyses (Ng et al., 2021b, 2023; Schiavo et al., 2024; Su et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2024), limiting our understanding of the broader implementation and effectiveness of AI education (Ng et al., 2021b, 2023; Schiavo et al., 2024; Su et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2024). A significant majority (75 %) of the papers pertaining to AI literacy have focused on students (Al-Abdullatif, 2024; Almatrafi et al., 2024; Ng et al., 2023), while few have focused on student (An et al., 2023; Liang et al., 2023).

Therefore, student must understand what AI is and what it can do inside and outside the classroom, and engage with AI technologies in a self-determined manner. These sets of skills, including understanding, utilizing, and integrating various AI technologies to enhance teaching methods, facilitate student learning, and improve overall educational outcomes, are commonly referred to as AI literacy (Carolus et al., 2023).

3.2.2. Academic Misconduct (AM)
Academic misconduct refers to behavior that violates the standards of honesty, fairness, and responsibility expected in academic work (Stephens, 2019). It has been operationalized in the literature as a multidimensional behavioral construct spanning collusion (e.g., unpermitted collaboration on individual assignments), misuse of resources (e.g., plagiarism, unauthorized use of materials), and fraud and contract cheating (Perry et al., 2026; Rettinger et al., 2024; Stephens et al., 2024). The emergence of GenAI tools has introduced new and complex forms of misconduct—including submitting AI-generated content as one's own work and using AI paraphrasing tools to disguise plagiarism—that blur the lines between legitimate AI assistance and academic fraud (Gruenhagen et al., 2024; Xia et al., 2024).

Scholars have approached academic misconduct from multiple perspectives. Stephens (2019) characterized the problem as epidemic in scale, noting that the majority of tertiary students globally report having cheated at least once during their studies, with this rate remaining remarkably stable across five decades and numerous countries. From a moral-psychological perspective, Stephens (2018) demonstrated that misconduct is driven not primarily by moral ignorance but by moral disengagement—students who cheat frequently possess accurate moral knowledge but use self-exculpatory rationalizations, such as blaming the instructor or normalizing the behavior among peers, to neutralize their ethical standards in specific situations. At a multi-level theoretical level, Perry et al. (2026) found that moral attitudes, institutional climate, and peer norms each contribute unique variance to misconduct, and that no single explanatory factor is sufficient on its own, confirming that academic misconduct is a multiply determined behavioral outcome.

Prevalence data underscore the scale of the problem. A nationwide New Zealand survey of 4,493 undergraduates found that approximately two-thirds (64.8%) reported at least one act of academic misconduct in the preceding year, with unauthorized collaboration being the most common behavior (Stephens et al., 2024). That survey incorporated the first items capturing AI-facilitated misconduct and found an initial 14.8% self-reported prevalence rate—likely a significant underestimate given that data collection concluded just two months before ChatGPT's public release (Stephens et al., 2024). Subsequent studies have confirmed that AI-facilitated misconduct is rapidly increasing and that many students do not recognize unauthorized AI assistance as a breach of academic integrity, highlighting the urgent need for research on the individual factors that shape these misconduct decisions (Gruenhagen et al., 2024; Lund et al., 2025).

Despite extensive research, significant gaps remain. Most existing studies predate the widespread availability of GenAI tools and therefore do not capture its most emergent forms of dishonest behavior (Lund et al., 2025; Perkins et al., 2024). Moreover, while moral attitudes and peer norms have been identified as predictors, the role of AI literacy—specifically whether higher AI literacy leads to more ethical decision-making around GenAI use—has not been empirically tested (Ng et al., 2021b; Stephens et al., 2024). Research from Chinese higher education contexts is particularly sparse, leaving open how cultural assessment norms and institutional factors moderate the AI literacy–misconduct relationship (Brown & Wang, 2016; Zhao et al., 2020). The most psychometrically validated instrument for measuring academic misconduct is the McCabe-ICAI Academic Misconduct Instrument (MIAMI; Rettinger et al., 2024), which assesses three behavioral factors—Collusion, Misuse of Resources, and Fraud/Contract Cheating—validated in large-scale multinational samples and supplemented with AI-specific misconduct items in recent adaptations (Perry et al., 2026; Stephens et al., 2024).

Academic misconduct refers to behaviors that violate academic integrity, resulting in unfair academic advantages (Stone, Jawahar, and Kisamore 2010). Traditional forms of academic misconduct include plagiarism, cheating, fabrication of data, unauthorized collaboration, and contract cheating (Stone, Jawahar, and Kisamore 2010). There is substantial evidence that academic misconduct remains a prevalent issue among students in tertiary institutions (M. Birks et al. 2020). For example, in Australia, Curtis and Popal (2011) reported plagiarism rates as high as 74%, and found that 7.9% of Australian university students utilized contract cheating services, while 11.4% resorted to obtaining pre-written work.

Students may engage in academic misconduct for a number of reasons including peer pressure, perceptions of cheating as the norm, confusion about what constitutes academic misconduct, ignorance as to the boundaries of acceptable academic practices, high academic expectations, intense competition, and a fear of failure (Bayaa Martin Saana et al. 2016; Miles, Campbell, and Ruxton 2022). In the context of AI, academic misconduct refers to the use of GAITs that substitutes a student’s writing or intellectual contribution, misrepresents authorship, or violates assessment rules regarding originality and permitted assistance (Shaw 2025). This includes, for example, submitting AI-generated work as one’s own, using AI where it is prohibited, or failing to acknowledge AI assistance where required (D. Birks and Clare 2023; Shaw 2025).

However, the boundaries of acceptable versus improper AI use are often unclear to students as institutional policies are still evolving and course expectations vary widely. Consequently, students may struggle to distinguish permitted and supportive use from behaviors that constitute academic misconduct (Chan 2025).

While GenAI tools offer innovative ways to enhance learning, personalise instruction, and increase student engagement (Blake, 2024; Dowling & Li, 2025; Tan et al., 2024), they simultaneously complicate academic dishonesty. GenAI enables students to automate academic tasks, from summarising readings to composing essays. As such, they can compromise the authenticity of student work and undermine traditional assessment reliability (Bittle & El-Gayar, 2025). For instance, ChatGPT’s near-perfect scores in traditional assessments create problems for unproctored formats, where such evaluation no longer accurately measures students’ skills (Akintande, 2024). Additionally, the easy accessibility and convenience of AI tools normalise dishonest practices, especially among students experiencing academic stress or lacking confidence (Ward et al., 2024; Yavich & Davidovitch, 2024).

Despite extensive research aimed at better understanding and explaining academic misconduct, violations of academic integrity remain highly prevalent among student bodies in higher education settings (Baig & Paparo, 2026).

3.2.3. Conceptions of Assessment (CoA)
Conceptions of assessment (CoA) refer to the beliefs students hold about the purposes, nature, and consequences of educational evaluation practices they encounter during their studies (Brown, 2011, 2021). These beliefs function as cognitive-motivational filters that mediate between the objective features of an assessment task and a student's behavioral response: the same assignment can elicit very different reactions depending on whether the student views it as a genuine opportunity to develop and demonstrate authentic learning or as an arbitrary, irrelevant, or threatening hurdle to be circumvented by any available means (Brown, 2021; Brown & Wang, 2016).

Scholars have approached conceptions of assessment from multiple perspectives. Brown's (2011, 2021) Self-Regulation Model draws on Boekaerts' (1996) dual-pathway framework to identify two broad self-regulatory orientations: an adaptive growth pathway, in which assessment is treated as a resource for learning improvement, and a maladaptive ego-protective pathway, in which assessment is viewed as irrelevant or externally imposed to shield self-worth from the threat of poor performance. Students who endorse growth-oriented conceptions exhibit greater metacognitive engagement, higher self-efficacy, and better academic performance, while those who endorse ego-protective conceptions are more prone to disengagement and avoidance (Brown, 2021; Zhao et al., 2020). A systematic review of 22 higher education studies spanning 11 jurisdictions confirmed this pattern consistently (Brown, 2021). In the Chinese higher education context, Brown and Wang (2016) developed the culturally validated Chinese Student Conceptions of Assessment (C-SCoA) inventory, identifying eight culturally grounded belief factors—including Societal Uses, Class Benefits, Accuracy, Teacher Use, Family Effects, and Competition—and demonstrating that jurisdictional and institutional factors, rather than shared cultural values alone, explained the most variation in how students conceptualized the purpose of assessment.

Despite strong evidence linking assessment conceptions to effort and motivation outcomes, significant gaps remain. First, their relationship to integrity-specific behavior has not been empirically tested; specifically, whether maladaptive assessment conceptions supply the motivational premise from which students construct moral disengagement reasoning about unauthorized AI use (Brown, 2022). Second, no study has examined whether AI literacy shapes how students conceive of assessment in an AI-enriched environment, or whether such understandings promote more adaptive beliefs. Third, the role of assessment conceptions as a mediating variable between individual AI-related competencies and ethical academic behavior remains entirely untested.

Brown's (2011, 2021) SCoA inventory provides the most extensively validated framework for operationalizing this construct, distinguishing four superordinate beliefs: assessment improves teaching and learning (adaptive), assessment has socio-emotional benefits, assessment evaluates schools and individuals (external accountability), and assessment is irrelevant (maladaptive). In the proposed model, conceptions of assessment function as the first mediating variable: AI-literate students who better understand what assessment genuinely evaluates may develop more adaptive beliefs that reduce their motivation to engage in academic misconduct (Brown & Wang, 2016; Ng et al., 2021b).

3.2.4. Academic Integrity (AI)
Academic integrity refers to students' commitment to fundamental values of honesty, trust, fairness, respect, and responsibility in their academic work (Stephens, 2019). It is most usefully understood not as the simple absence of misconduct but as a positive motivational orientation—a set of moral beliefs and self-regulatory dispositions that determine whether a student chooses to engage authentically with academic demands, including decisions about legitimate versus unauthorized AI use (Perry et al., 2026; Stephens, 2018).

Scholars have approached academic integrity from complementary theoretical perspectives. Rest's (1999) Four-Component Model of Moral Functioning is the most influential framework, decomposing ethical academic action into four components: moral sensitivity (recognizing that a situation has a moral dimension), moral judgment (determining the right course of action), moral motivation (prioritizing integrity values over competing self-interests such as grade pressure), and moral character (the self-regulatory capacity to act honestly despite obstacles). Critically, the model predicts that knowing the right thing to do is necessary but not sufficient to produce ethical behavior. Stephens (2018) confirmed this empirically, finding that moral judgment had no significant direct effect on academic misconduct; instead, the effect operated entirely through moral disengagement—self-exculpatory rationalizations that allow students to cheat while privately acknowledging that doing so is wrong. Perry et al. (2026) replicated this pattern across 2,329 North American undergraduates, finding that moral attitudes—combining moral unacceptability judgments with resistance to moral disengagement—were the most robust predictors of academic misconduct across five competing theoretical models.

Significant gaps remain. The relationship between AI literacy and academic integrity has not been empirically examined; specifically, whether AI literacy's ethics dimension (Long & Magerko, 2020; Ng et al., 2021b) functions analogously to moral judgment in Rest's (1999) model—necessary but insufficient on its own to prevent dishonest behavior. Additionally, no study has tested whether conceptions of assessment predict academic integrity values, despite the theoretical link between ego-protective assessment beliefs and moral disengagement (Brown, 2021; Stephens, 2018). Existing moral attitude measures have also not been widely adapted for AI-specific misconduct scenarios, limiting their applicability to the GenAI context (Stephens et al., 2024). The Moral Attitudes scale validated by Perry et al. (2026) and Stephens et al. (2024) provides the most psychometrically rigorous operationalization of academic integrity currently available, combining a Moral Unacceptability subscale (5 items) and a Moral Disengagement subscale (7 items, reverse-scored). In the proposed model, academic integrity functions as the second mediating variable, positioned downstream of conceptions of assessment, through which adaptive assessment beliefs translate into reduced academic misconduct.

3.2.5. Brown's Self-Regulation Model and Rest's Four-Component Model
This study's theory is rooted in two fundamental frameworks that jointly explain the cognitive and moral pathways linking AI literacy to academic misconduct: Brown's (2011, 2021) Self-Regulation Model of Conceptions of Assessment (SCoA Model) and Rest's (1999) Four-Component Model of Moral Functioning. Together, these provide the theoretical architecture for the proposed serial mediation model.

The SCoA Model has been used to explain how students' assessment beliefs shape their self-regulatory responses to evaluative demands across diverse cultural and institutional contexts (Brown, 2011, 2021; Brown & Wang, 2016). In contrast, the Four-Component Model examines the moral-psychological processes through which personal values are—or fail to be—translated into ethical academic behavior (Rest, 1999), and has been regarded as the most important complement to cognitive-motivational models of student conduct (Stephens, 2018). The SCoA Model accounts for the motivational and cognitive factors pertaining to assessment from students' perspectives, whereas the Four-Component Model accounts for students' moral knowledge, motivation, and self-regulatory character required to make and follow through on honest academic decisions. The SCoA Model has been widely validated in higher education research because it explains substantial variance in students' academic self-regulation across more than 22 studies and 11 jurisdictions (Brown, 2021), and the Four-Component Model has consistently produced the most accurate predictions of academic (dis)honest behavior across independent national samples (Perry et al., 2026; Stephens, 2018).

The SCoA Model emphasizes two key pathways: (1) the growth pathway (adaptive Conceptions of Assessment), which in the present study corresponds to the first mediating mechanism that channels AI literacy's influence toward honest academic engagement; and (2) the ego-protective pathway (maladaptive Conceptions of Assessment), which corresponds to the mechanism through which students rationalize dishonest AI use when they view assessment as irrelevant or externally imposed (Brown, 2021). The Four-Component Model emphasizes four components: moral sensitivity and moral judgment—corresponding to AI Literacy's ethics dimension, which equips students to recognize and evaluate the ethical implications of AI use; moral motivation—corresponding to Academic Integrity, the disposition to prioritize honest academic work over self-interested shortcuts; and moral character—corresponding to the behavioral suppression of Academic Misconduct even when temptation is present (Rest, 1999).

This study adopted the SCoA Model as the theoretical basis for the first mediating pathway (AI Literacy → Conceptions of Assessment → Academic Integrity) and the Four-Component Model as the theoretical basis for the second mediating pathway (Academic Integrity → Academic Misconduct). The SCoA Model provides the motivational rationale for why AI literacy should shape how students interpret the meaning and purpose of their assessments, while the Four-Component Model explains why that interpretation subsequently shapes moral motivation and self-regulation in academic conduct decisions. According to these two integrated frameworks, AI Literacy has a significant impact on Academic Misconduct through the sequential mediation of Conceptions of Assessment and Academic Integrity (Brown, 2011, 2021; Rest, 1999; Stephens, 2018).

3.2.6. The Relationship Between AI Literacy and Academic Misconduct: The Mediating Role of Conceptions of Assessment and Academic Integrity
First, AI literacy is a crucial factor affecting students' academic conduct in AI-enriched environments (Gruenhagen et al., 2024; Lund et al., 2025). Recent studies have highlighted the significant role of AI literacy's ethics dimension in shaping responsible AI use in educational settings (Long & Magerko, 2020; Ng et al., 2021b; Schiavo et al., 2024). Students with higher AI literacy possess a more accurate understanding of the capabilities and ethical boundaries of GenAI tools, making them better equipped to distinguish legitimate AI assistance from unauthorized substitution of their own academic work (Lund et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2023). Gruenhagen et al. (2024) found that students who did not understand the ethical implications of AI use for assessment were substantially more likely to report using AI tools dishonestly. This reflects the significant influence of AI literacy levels on academic misconduct engagement (Perry et al., 2026; Stephens et al., 2024).

Second, AI literacy significantly shapes students' conceptions of assessment and their academic integrity. Higher levels of AI literacy facilitate a greater understanding of what assessment genuinely measures—authentic knowledge and competence rather than AI-assisted performance—which in turn promotes improvement-oriented rather than irrelevance-oriented conceptions of assessment (Brown, 2021; Ng et al., 2021b; Wang et al., 2023). Adaptive conceptions of assessment reduce students' motivation to construct the moral disengagement narratives—such as "this assignment doesn't measure anything real" or "using AI doesn't hurt anyone"—that underpin dishonest AI use (Brown & Wang, 2016; Stephens, 2018). Similarly, AI literacy is expected to promote academic integrity directly: if the AI ethics dimension of AI literacy functions analogously to moral sensitivity in Rest's (1999) model, enabling students to recognize when AI use constitutes dishonesty, then higher AI literacy should strengthen students' moral condemnation of academic misconduct and their resistance to rationalizing it (Ng et al., 2021b; Perry et al., 2026). Perry et al. (2026) and Stephens et al. (2024) consistently found that stronger moral attitudes were the most robust personal predictors of reduced academic misconduct across independent national samples.

Third, conceptions of assessment directly influence academic integrity, and academic integrity directly reduces academic misconduct. Students who view assessment as a meaningful improvement opportunity have greater intrinsic motivation to engage honestly with academic work and less motivational basis for constructing disengagement rationalizations about AI use (Brown, 2021; Rest, 1999). Brown and Wang (2016) demonstrated that adaptive assessment beliefs consistently predict more constructive self-regulatory academic behavior. Furthermore, academic integrity—operationalized through moral unacceptability judgments and resistance to moral disengagement—is the proximal person-level predictor of reduced misconduct, with Stephens (2018) demonstrating that this moral self-regulation fully accounts for the judgment-to-behavior pathway. Previous research confirms that conceptions of assessment and academic integrity play complementary and sequential mediating roles between individual-difference antecedents and academic misconduct (Brown, 2021; Rest, 1999; Stephens, 2018). Thus, we hypothesize the following:

H1. AI Literacy has a significant negative effect on Academic Misconduct.
H2. AI Literacy has a significant positive effect on Conceptions of Assessment.
H3. AI Literacy has a significant positive effect on Academic Integrity.
H4. Conceptions of Assessment has a significant positive effect on Academic Integrity.
H5. Academic Integrity has a significant negative effect on Academic Misconduct.
H6. Conceptions of Assessment has a significant negative effect on Academic Misconduct.
H7. Conceptions of Assessment mediates the effect of AI Literacy on Academic Integrity.
H8. Conceptions of Assessment mediates the effect of AI Literacy on Academic Misconduct.
H9. Academic Integrity mediates the effect of AI Literacy on Academic Misconduct.

Based on Brown's (2011) Self-Regulation Model of Conceptions of Assessment and Rest's (1999) Four-Component Model of Moral Functioning, this study introduces the independent variable (AI Literacy), mediating variables (Conceptions of Assessment and Academic Integrity), and dependent variable (Academic Misconduct) to propose a serial mediation research model. The research model based on these hypotheses is illustrated in Fig. 1.


Fig. 1.

Research hypothesis model

3.3. Methodology


3.3.1 Sample
Hancock and Feng’s (2026) nmax calculator was applied to evaluate whether the sample size was sufficient for SEM. Assuming a minimum standardized path coefficient of γ = 0.20 and moderate multicollinearity among predictors (ρc = 0.30), the required minimum sample size is 213. Considering an anticipated longitudinal attrition rate of 20% across the three waves of data collection, consistent with prior three-wave AI literacy research (Liu et al., 2026), the final required sample size at T1 will be at least 267 participants to ensure a fully matched, valid sample of no fewer than 213 by T3.

3.3.2. Demographics
A total of X university students from various universities in China willingly participated in this study.

3.3.3. Measures
To measure the level of student’ AI literacy, Zhao et al.’s (2022) scale was AI literacy. The scale included 20 items that sought to collect information on four separate dimensions of student’ AI literacy: Knowing and Understanding AI (KUAI), Applying AI (AAI), Evaluating AI Application (EAIA), and AI Ethics (AIE).

To measure Academic Misconduct, this study adopted an adapted version of the McCabe-ICAI Academic Misconduct Instrument (MIAMI; Rettinger et al., 2024), as used in Perry et al. (2026) and Stephens et al. (2024). The 17-item instrument assesses three factors—Collusion, Misuse of Resources, and Fraud/Contract Cheating—on a five-point frequency scale (0 = Never to 4 = 11 or more times), supplemented with three AI-specific items capturing AI-facilitated misconduct (e.g., using a GenAI tool to generate academic work and submitting it as one's own without disclosure). All items were translated into Mandarin Chinese using a forward-backward translation procedure with bilingual researchers.

To measure Conceptions of Assessment, this study adopted the Chinese Student Conceptions of Assessment (C-SCoA) inventory developed and validated by Brown and Wang (2016) specifically for Chinese university students. The inventory comprises 33 items assessing eight culturally grounded assessment belief factors using a six-point positively packed agreement scale (1 = Strongly Disagree to 6 = Strongly Agree). The improvement-oriented subscales (Class Benefits, Teacher Use, and Accuracy) serve as the primary indicators of adaptive conceptions of assessment in the structural equation model.

【To measure Academic Integrity, this study adopted the Moral Attitudes scale validated by Perry et al. (2026) and Stephens et al. (2024), comprising two subscales: Moral Unacceptability (5 items rated on a 5-point scale from 0 = Not at all morally/ethically wrong to 4 = Completely morally/ethically wrong) and Moral Disengagement (7 items on a 5-point Likert scale, reverse-scored for the integrity composite). Items were adapted to include AI-specific academic scenarios reflecting current GenAI use contexts. Higher composite scores indicate stronger academic integrity.】

3.3.4. Data collection
Data for this study were collected using a three-wave longitudinal tracking design. A self-reported method was employed to survey students' AI literacy, academic misconduct, conceptions of assessment, and academic integrity at three time points. The research team implemented strategies such as securing college support, providing guidance, and offering appropriate incentives to effectively control attrition rates. To reduce common method bias associated with self-reported data, no identifying information will be collected across the three waves. Participants are provided with private spaces to complete the questionnaires, sufficient time for completion, and assurance that the data would be used solely for research purposes, thereby ensuring anonymity, confidentiality, and data validity. Sample attrition in this study was primarily due to invalid responses. Invalid questionnaires were excluded based on criteria such as substantial missing data, patterned responses, abnormal completion time, or illogical answers.

This study employs a time-lagged research design for data collection and conducted three waves of questionnaire surveys to reduce the potential influence of common method bias to some extent (Yu et al., 2021).

The interval between each wave of data collection is two months. Each questionnaires will be distributed and collected on-site through an online survey platform. To ensure longitudinal matching across the three waves of data collection, participants will be assigned a unique anonymous identification number (ID), which was retained in T2 and T3 to ensure rigor and traceability.

During data processing, only questionnaires that are successfully matched across all three waves and fully complete are retained for analysis. Responses that could not be matched longitudinally or contained missing data were excluded. Based on the anticipated attrition rate, the final valid, fully matched sample retained across all three waves is expected to meet or exceed the required minimum sample size of 213 participants determined by the nmax approach. Finally, we use a three-wave time-lagged design to keep a temporal separation between predictors and outcomes (Podsakoff et al., 2012).

3.3.5. Data Analysis Procedure
The study employee a structural equation modelling (SEM) approach using RStudio (version 2026.07.1). Data are collected via an online survey and analyzed using RStudio software. RStudio will be used to analyze the data through a Structural Equation Modelling (SEM) approach, including the measurement model, structural model, and Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA). 

First, the variables are examined for outliers using z-values. To describe the data, we utilize the “psych” and “dplyr” packages (Revelle, 2026; Wickham et al., 2014). For the main analysis, which involves Structural Equation Modeling (SEM), we will employ the “lavaan” package and the “semPlot” package (Epskamp, 2015; Revelle, 2026). The Lavaan package will be used to define the measurement model and to conduct multigroup CFA and main effects SEM models, while the Modsem package will be used to test the multigroup interaction SEM model (Rosseel, 2012; Slupphaug et al., 2025). Model fits are evaluated with the robust comparative fit index (CFI), robust root mean square error of approximation (RMSEA), and standardized root mean square residual (SRMR).

CFA will be conducted with initial data collected from students to assess the structural or factorial validity of the Questionnaire. CFA is chosen because of its unique ability to explore the causal relationships among latent and observed variables in pre-defined, theory-derived models (Tavakol & Wetzel, 2020). CFA was conducted from the lavaan package in R (Rosseel, 2012). Before conducting CFA, data screening procedures will be conducted, including the examination of missing data, outliers, and univariate and multivariate normality.

SEM will be conducted through the following steps: model specification, model identification, model estimation, model testing, and model modification (Schumacker & Lomax, 2015). The model is specified and identified based on the conceptual framework outlined in the literature section. A bootstrapping method with robust maximum likelihood estimation will be used for model estimation. Robust maximum likelihood estimation with bootstrapped standard errors was selected, rather than PLS-SEM, because this combination maintains stable and unbiased parameter estimates even at moderate sample sizes, without the interpretive limitations associated with PLS-based composite modeling (Schumacker & Lomax, 2015). Initially, the measurement model estimations will confirm that all factor loadings are significant. Subsequently, model fit indices will be examined. We use Chi-square, CFI, TLI, RMSEA, and SRMR as fit indices. For a good model fit, CFI and TLI values should be 0.90 or above, while RMSEA and SRMR values should be below 0.08 (Schumacker & Lomax, 2015). The mediation analysis using structural equation modeling (SEM) with the lavaan package in RStudio is utilized to examine the direct, indirect, and total effects. After evaluating the path coefficients, the results will be reported.


4. Study 3: The Impact of AI Literacy on Academic Misconduct: The Mediating Role of Academic Motivation and Self-Regulation Learning
Abstract

4.1. Introduction
Derived from autonomous learning or learner autonomy, self-regulated learning (SRL) has garnered extensive attention among educational scholars. It enables people to decide what, when, and how to conduct learning, as well as the necessity to resort to others for support, resulting in lifelong learning (Huang & Derakhshan, 2025). Unfortunately, relatively few studies have been conducted in the learning setting to understand how learners self-regulate their learning with AI (Huang & Derakhshan, 2025). While SRL have been extensively studied within the context of AI education, few studies have investigated their intersection with AI literacy (K. Wang et al., 2025). The intersection of self-regulated learning, and AI literacy has also received limited attention (Bećirović et al., 2026). To date, the interrelationships among AI literacy, academic misconduct, academic motivation, and self-regulated learning have not been systematically examined (Shi et al., 2025).

Artiﬁcial intelligence literacy has become increasingly critical as AI integrates into high education, yet understanding of the factors inﬂuencing students’ AI literacy and its relationship with self-regulated learning remains limited (D. Wang et al., 2026).

Recent studies have also examined the potential synergy between SRL theory and AI (Jin et al., 2023; Molenaar, 2022; Molenaar et al., 2023). However, the current body of research on the relationship between AI and SRL has primarily focused on how AI supports and enhances SRL. For example, Lim et al. (2023) explored the application of rule-based AI systems for real-time measurement and support of students’ SRL. Their findings revealed that personalized scaffolding, facilitated by real-time analysis, significantly enhances students’ SRL. Similarly, several studies have investigated the role of SRLSs in AIED. Despite these contributions, a significant gap remains in the literature regarding how SRLSs specifically influence AI literacy. Furthermore, although SRL has been extensively applied in educational contexts to enhance motivation and engagement in learning, and SRL has been shown to improve students’ AI literacy competencies (Anthonysamy et al., 2020; Chen et al., 2021; Z. Zhang et al., 2023), few studies have investigated the intersection of SRL, and AI literacy.

To address these identified research gaps, this study investigates the impact of AI Literacy (Independent Variable) on Academic Misconduct (Dependent Variable) through the mediating effects of Academic Motivation and Self-Regulation Learning (Mediator Variables) in a serial mediation research model. This study aims to bridge these gaps by investigating the interrelationships between these constructs among Chinese university students.


4.2. Literature Review and Hypothesis

4.2.1. AI Literacy (AIL)
The increasing incorporation of AI into teaching and learning environments has sparked interest in AI literacy (Al-Abdullatif & Alsubaie, 2024; B. Wang et al., 2023). One approach to AI education is to improve AI literacy (Casal-Otero et al., 2023; Chung et al., 2025). Nevertheless, the effective classroom integration of AI demands that student be AI-literate, encompassing understanding, utilization, monitoring, and critical reflection on AI applications in teaching (Ding et al., 2024).

AI literacy is a newly emerging concept that seeks to define, teach, and evaluate knowledge and skills related to AI. AI literacy refers to an individual’s ability to comprehend, utilize, monitor, and critically evaluate AI applications, even without the ability to develop AI models. Furthermore, it encompasses the ability to observe, ethically use, and critically evaluate AI applications and AI-generated content and their implications without necessarily having programming knowledge. AI literacy encompasses the competencies that enable individuals to critically evaluate AI technologies and leverage them for effective communication and collaboration (Long & Magerko, 2020; Wu et al., 2024). This concept entails the design and implementation of AI learning activities, tools, applications, and pedagogical models (Wu et al., 2024; Yim & Su, 2024).

The term “AI literacy” was first coined by Burgsteiner et al. (2016) and Kandlhofer et al. (2016), who described the competencies required to understand the basic knowledge and concepts of AI and to use AI technologies. In addition, Long and Magerko (2020) defined it as a set of competencies that enables individuals to critically evaluate, communicate, and collaborate effectively with AI and use it as a tool, online, at home, and in the workplace. Furthermore, Ng et al. (2021b, 2021a) added AI to every student’s AI literacy in work settings and everyday life and proposed it as a fundamental skill for everyone, not just computer scientists. He incorporated the model of Bloom’s Taxonomy, Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge (TPACK), and AI concepts, practices, and perspectives into the instructional design of AI literacy education (Ng et al., 2021b, 2021a).

Carolus et al. (2023) stated that AI literacy covers “competencies needed to interact with AI technology in a self-determined and rational manner.” Pinski and Benlian (2023) provided a definition of General AI literacy, describing it ashumans “socio-technical competence consisting of knowledge regarding human and AI actors in human-AI interaction, knowledge of the AI process steps, that is, input, processing, and output, and experience in AI interaction.” Laupichler et al. (2023) define the concept of AI literacy as “competencies that include basic knowledge and analytical evaluation of AI, in addition to the critical use of AI applications by ordinary non-expert individuals.” They did not include (programming skills) in their definitions because they considered them a separate set of competencies beyond AI literacy (Laupichler et al., 2023).

Recently, several studies have developed AI literacy frameworks for education (Kong et al., 2023; Ng et al., 2021b; Wong et al., 2020). AI literacy does not require detailed technical expertise in AI applications. However, it spans four dimensions: understanding and comprehension of AI, practical application of AI, assessment of AI applications, and ethical considerations of AI (L. Zhao et al., 2022).

Long and Magerko (2020) provided a conceptual framework of AI literacy composed of five overarching themes derived from the literature (Long & Magerko, 2020).Wang et al. (2023) proposed a theoretical framework to conceptualize AI Literacy, comprising four constructs: Usage, defined as the ability to exploit AI technology to proficiently perform tasks; Awareness, the ability to identify and comprehend AI systems during interactions; Evaluation, the capacity to critically analyze and assess AI applications and their outcomes; and Ethics, which involves recognizing responsibilities and risks associated with using AI systems. Kong et al. (2023) designed an AI literacy framework, including cognitive, affective, and sociocultural. Ng et al. (2021b) developed an AI literacy TPACK framework that includes four dimensions: (1) knowing and understanding AI (knowing the basic functions of AI and how to use AI applications); (2) using and applying AI (applying AI knowledge, concepts, and applications in different scenarios); (3) evaluating and creating AI (higher-order thinking skills with AI applications); and (4) AI ethics (human-centered considerations). These dimensions offer a comprehensive framework that supports the development of AI literacy and enables AI integration into education (Su & Yang, 2024).

Despite the growing body of research on AI Literacy, significant gaps remain (Lu et al., 2024). Most studies have relied on qualitative methodologies or small-scale quantitative analyses (Ng et al., 2021b, 2023; Schiavo et al., 2024; Su et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2024), limiting our understanding of the broader implementation and effectiveness of AI education (Ng et al., 2021b, 2023; Schiavo et al., 2024; Su et al., 2023; Wu et al., 2024). A significant majority (75 %) of the papers pertaining to AI literacy have focused on students (Al-Abdullatif, 2024; Almatrafi et al., 2024; Ng et al., 2023), while few have focused on student (An et al., 2023; Liang et al., 2023).

Therefore, student must understand what AI is and what it can do inside and outside the classroom, and engage with AI technologies in a self-determined manner. These sets of skills, including understanding, utilizing, and integrating various AI technologies to enhance teaching methods, facilitate student learning, and improve overall educational outcomes, are commonly referred to as AI literacy (Carolus et al., 2023).

4.2.2. Academic Misconduct (AM)
Academic misconduct refers to behavior that violates the standards of honesty, fairness, and responsibility expected in academic work (Stephens, 2019). It has been operationalized in the literature as a multidimensional behavioral construct spanning collusion (e.g., unpermitted collaboration on individual assignments), misuse of resources (e.g., plagiarism, unauthorized use of materials), and fraud and contract cheating (Perry et al., 2026; Rettinger et al., 2024; Stephens et al., 2024). The emergence of GenAI tools has introduced new and complex forms of misconduct—including submitting AI-generated content as one's own work and using AI paraphrasing tools to disguise plagiarism—that blur the lines between legitimate AI assistance and academic fraud (Gruenhagen et al., 2024; Xia et al., 2024).

Scholars have approached academic misconduct from multiple perspectives. Stephens (2019) characterized the problem as epidemic in scale, noting that the majority of tertiary students globally report having cheated at least once during their studies, with this rate remaining remarkably stable across five decades and numerous countries. From a moral-psychological perspective, Stephens (2018) demonstrated that misconduct is driven not primarily by moral ignorance but by moral disengagement—students who cheat frequently possess accurate moral knowledge but use self-exculpatory rationalizations, such as blaming the instructor or normalizing the behavior among peers, to neutralize their ethical standards in specific situations. At a multi-level theoretical level, Perry et al. (2026) found that moral attitudes, institutional climate, and peer norms each contribute unique variance to misconduct, and that no single explanatory factor is sufficient on its own, confirming that academic misconduct is a multiply determined behavioral outcome.

Prevalence data underscore the scale of the problem. A nationwide New Zealand survey of 4,493 undergraduates found that approximately two-thirds (64.8%) reported at least one act of academic misconduct in the preceding year, with unauthorized collaboration being the most common behavior (Stephens et al., 2024). That survey incorporated the first items capturing AI-facilitated misconduct and found an initial 14.8% self-reported prevalence rate—likely a significant underestimate given that data collection concluded just two months before ChatGPT's public release (Stephens et al., 2024). Subsequent studies have confirmed that AI-facilitated misconduct is rapidly increasing and that many students do not recognize unauthorized AI assistance as a breach of academic integrity, highlighting the urgent need for research on the individual factors that shape these misconduct decisions (Gruenhagen et al., 2024; Lund et al., 2025).

Despite extensive research, significant gaps remain. Most existing studies predate the widespread availability of GenAI tools and therefore do not capture its most emergent forms of dishonest behavior (Lund et al., 2025; Perkins et al., 2024). Moreover, while moral attitudes and peer norms have been identified as predictors, the role of AI literacy—specifically whether higher AI literacy leads to more ethical decision-making around GenAI use—has not been empirically tested (Ng et al., 2021b; Stephens et al., 2024). Research from Chinese higher education contexts is particularly sparse, leaving open how cultural assessment norms and institutional factors moderate the AI literacy–misconduct relationship (Brown & Wang, 2016; Zhao et al., 2020). The most psychometrically validated instrument for measuring academic misconduct is the McCabe-ICAI Academic Misconduct Instrument (MIAMI; Rettinger et al., 2024), which assesses three behavioral factors—Collusion, Misuse of Resources, and Fraud/Contract Cheating—validated in large-scale multinational samples and supplemented with AI-specific misconduct items in recent adaptations (Perry et al., 2026; Stephens et al., 2024).

4.2.3. Academic Learning Motivation (ALM)
Although attitude (fondness of using a tool) and behavioural intention (likelihood of using a tool) are included in TPB, the operational definitions of the two variables do not capture this study's meaning of motivation. LM, in this study, refers to the degree to which EFL learners are motivated to engage in self-regulated English learning.

Suggesting one's tendency to put effort into achieving goals, people's ALM determines the choices they make, strategies they adopt, and commitment they devote (Dörnyei 1998; Ryan and Deci 2000; Zhao and Huang 2024). In an EFL setting, learners who are more motivated or inspired towards a goal tend to be more engaged in learning, and vice versa (Li et al. 2022). LM helps people to initiate and maintain the learning process, which involves devotion, aspiration, and engagement to achieve goals; it also facilitates the formation of favourable attitudes towards learning (Dörnyei 1998; Li et al. 2022).

To categorise motivation, Gardner and Lambert (1972) proposed the well-known dichotomy of integrative and instrumental motivations. Integrative motivation indicates one's impetus to learn a target language for social–emotional purposes, such as communication with members of the target language community; whereas instrumental motivation indicates one's learning for pragmatic purposes (e.g., examination, job opportunities, better education). Later, motivation was categorised into intrinsic and extrinsic types, garnering widespread consensus among scholars. Learners who expect to derive satisfaction, enjoyment, and self-determination are typically intrinsically motivated; those who attempt to obtain extrinsic rewards (such as good grades) or avoid punishment through learning are extrinsically motivated. In addition, intrinsically motivated people may perform a task driven by external pressures or promises of reward (Dörnyei 1998).

Comparing the above dichotomies, Zimmerman (1990) suggested the instrumental versus integrative division neglects the importance of mental mechanisms in people's learning. Considering that SRL is initiated by learners' cognitive, motivational, and affective factors (Zimmerman 1990; Li et al. 2022), this study measured LM from intrinsic and extrinsic perspectives. SRL and LM are interdependent and cannot be understood separately. Motivation influences one's intention and behaviour (Pintrich 2004; Genc and Aydin 2017). In addition, perceptions of significant others influence students' LM (Wentzel 1998). Similarly, Ly and Doeur (2024) suggested that social influence influenced one's motivation through their attitude. These studies provide the following hypotheses. 

Academic motivation refers to the internal and external factors that drive students to learn and perform academically (Ryan & Deci, 2020). Academic motivation—whether intrinsic, driven by internal satisfaction and interest, or extrinsic, driven by external rewards like grades and recognition—also significantly influences how engaged students are in their academic work (Ryan & Deci, 2020; Shin & Bolkan, 2021).

4.2.4. Self-Regulation Learning (SRL)
SRL is defined as a cyclical process involving forethought (planning), performance (implementation), and self-reflection (monitoring and adjustment) (Zimmerman & Schunk, 2001). This framework has been extended to digital learning environments by Barnard et al. (2009), who developed an SRL model specific to online contexts. 

SRL refers to learners’ ability to actively set goals, monitor progress, and adjust strategies to achieve desired learning outcomes (Zimmerman, 2002). Students with strong SRL skills not only demonstrate greater persistence and stress management in learning (Namaziandost et al., 2023) but also eﬀectively leverage external support—such as teachers, peers, or technological tools—when dealing with complex or unfamiliar learning tasks (Xia et al., 2023). However, traditional forms of external support often involve supervision and are constrained by time and space (Boekaerts, 1999), making it diﬃcult to provide sustained and personalized assistance.

Pintrich (2000) articulated SRL as “an active, constructive process whereby learners set goals for their learning and then attempt to monitor, regulate, and control their cognition, motivation, and behavior, guided and constrained by their goals and the contextual features in the environment” (p. 453). The advancement of GenAI has motivated researchers to coin the term GenAI-SRL to explain regulatory processes in these new contexts. GenAI-SRL describes how learners use GenAI systems to plan, monitor, and evaluate their learning while also managing their interactions with these intelligent tools (Banihashem et al., 2025; Chang & Sun, 2024).

With the rapid proliferation of AI, particularly generative AI, AI tools are increasingly used to support students’ SRL processes. Empirical studies show that AI applications such as chatbots, adaptive feedback systems, and intelligent tutoring systems can provide personalized support during the forethought, performance, and reﬂection phases of SRL (Ng et al., 2024c; Wang and Lin, 2023) For example, the SRLbot developed by Ng et al. (2024b) oﬀers dynamic learning suggestions based on students’ real-time learning states, while study demonstrates that ChatGPT can signiﬁcantly enhance learners’ planning and self-monitoring during the reﬂection stage (Fan et al., 2025).

Despite these promising ﬁndings, existing research predominantly focuses on the functions or eﬀects of AI tools themselves (Järvelä et al., 2023), while paying limited attention to learners’ diﬀerences in AI literacy. This oversight introduces two potential risks. First, students with diﬀerent levels of AI literacy may use AI in fundamentally diﬀerent, even opposite, ways (Yang and Zhao, 2024), which can lead to divergent or even negative learning outcomes when using the same tool. Second, insuﬃcient ability to critically evaluate AI may cause students to rely excessively on AI systems, weakening their autonomy and inducing cognitive inertia (Fan et al., 2025; Li et al., 2024). Therefore, focusing solely on what AI tools can do, without considering learners’ understanding and use of AI, may result in overly optimistic expectations of AI’s impact on SRL and obscure potential educational inequalities (Chen and Delaney, 2025).

A small but growing body of research has begun to examine the direct relationship between AI literacy and SRL. Ng et al. (2021) emphasized in their review that AI literacy involves not only technical operation skills but also the abilities to critically evaluate and ethically use AI—dimensions closely associated with SRL sub-processes such as goal setting, monitoring, and strategy adjustment. Furthermore, Zhang and Chen (2025) identiﬁed four learner proﬁles with diﬀerent patterns in a survey of 1,704 Chinese university students. Their ﬁndings revealed that “AI-Inclined” learners, despite having relatively high AI literacy, tended to over-rely on AI due to weaker SRL, whereas “Potential” learners displayed a mutually reinforcing developmental pattern between AI literacy and SRL. These results highlight that diﬀerences in AI literacy are crucial for understanding students’ SRL performance.

Recent studies have also examined the potential synergy between SRL theory and AI (Jin et al., 2023; Molenaar, 2022; Molenaar et al., 2023). However, the current body of research on the relationship between AI and SRL has primarily focused on how AI supports and enhances SRL. For example, Lim et al. (2023) explored the application of rule-based AI systems for real-time measurement and support of students’ SRL. Their findings revealed that personalized scaffolding, facilitated by real-time analysis, significantly enhances students’ SRL. Similarly, several studies have investigated the role of SRLSs in AIED. For instance, Su (2020) emphasized that SRL-based adaptive scaffolding strategies are crucial for the effective implementation and success of computer software learning. Despite these contributions, a significant gap remains in the literature regarding how SRLSs specifically influence AI literacy. Furthermore, although SRL has been shown to improve students’ literacy competencies (Anthonysamy et al., 2020; Chen et al., 2021; Z. Zhang et al., 2023), few studies have investigated the intersection of SRL and AI literacy. This study aims to address this gap by examining how the psychological needs for autonomy, competence, and relatedness influence the development of students’ AI literacy through SRLSs.

SRL is an ongoing process in which students systematically plan, activate, and regulate their learning behaviours to satisfy their learning needs or achieve goals (Derakhshan and Fathi 2024; Zhi and Derakhshan 2024; Zimmerman and Schunk 2001). Studies suggested learners who are more independent in reg-ulating learning achieve better academic outcomes than those with lower levels of SRL (An et al. 2024; Feraco et al. 2023). In addition, SRL has a profound influence on learners' lifelong de-velopment, suggesting that learners who exhibit a greater will-ingness to engage in SRL are more inclined to broaden their knowledge base and fulfil their self-development needs, even after graduation (Pan et al. 2025; Zhang and Zou 2022). SRL en-compasses three phases: the performance phase (self-motivation and task analysis), the forethought phase (self-control and self-observation), and the self-reflective phase (self-judgement and self-reflection) (Zimmerman 2002). SRL also highlights the importance of individual traits (metacognition, motivation, and strategies) and learning context (Zimmerman 2002). The culti-vation of SRL skills and strategies encompasses the interactions of personal factors with behavioural and environmental factors (Zimmerman 2002). This process involves the interplay between cognitive, emotional, and psychological perceptions, as well as the contextual factors surrounding them (Schunk 2008).

Students interacting with integrated technology can facilitate SRL (Derakhshan and Zhang 2024; Elliott 2016). Internal fac-tors, such as goal orientation, learning beliefs, and technol-ogy self-efficacy, play important roles in technology adoption (An et al. 2021; Huang, Teo, and Zhou 2020; McWhaw and Abrami 2001). External factors, such as influences from signifi-cant others and technology support, were found to significantly influence technology adoption for specific purposes (Huang et al. 2023).

Integrating technology in the SRL context, Barnard et al. (2009) proposed the Online Self-regulated Learning Questionnaire (OSLQ) to examine university students' SRL in the online learning context. Since its emergence, it has been adapted in diverse contexts and proven its validity in measuring SRL in online learning contexts, including Chinese students' mathe-matics learning (Fung et al. 2018) and Russian MOOC learning (Martinez-Lopez et al. 2017). The OSLQ questionnaire contains six dimensions to assess SRL: goal setting (GS), environment structuring (ES), task strategies (TS), time management (TM), help-seeking (HS), and self-evaluation (SE). 

SRL refers to the processes through which students take an active, purposeful role in managing their own academic efforts (Panadero, 2017; Schunk & Zimmerman, 2012). SRL, involving the strategies students use to plan, monitor, and evaluate their learning, further enhances academic engagement by empowering students to take control of their educational journeys (Schunk & Zimmerman, 2012; Teng & Zhang, 2020).

4.2.5. Brown's Self-Regulation Model and Rest's Four-Component Model
T

4.2.6. The Relationship Between AI Literacy and Academic Misconduct
The results of Wang et al. (2025) study confirmed the positive correlation between SRL and college students' AI literacy predicted by previous studies. Consequently, recent research has indicated a positive impact of AI literacy on self-regulated learning (Bećirović et al., 2026; He & Wang, 2026; X. Wang & Zhang, 2026). Empirical research shows that AI literacy can significantly predict self-regulated learning (He & Wang, 2026). Students with more advanced AI literacy profiles consistently demonstrated stronger SRL competencies, indicating a clear positive association between AI literacy level and SRL (D. Wang et al., 2026).

There is a significant difference in self-regulated learning power between different types of students, with those with higher levels of intellectual literacy showing greater self-regulated learning ability (D. Wang et al., 2026).

Stephens's (2018) study emphasized the causal effect of motivation and self-regulated learning on academic misconduct and the need to investigate the mediating role of motivation and self-regulated learning in AI literacy and academic misconduct. Self-regulated learning and learning motivation are interdependent and cannot be understood separately (Huang & Derakhshan, 2025). Moreover, learning motivation significantly influences college learners' use of AI in self-directed learning (Huang & Derakhshan, 2025).

Thus, we hypothesize the following:

H1. AI Literacy has a significant negative effect on Academic Misconduct.
H2. AI Literacy has a significant positive effect on Academic Motivation.
H3. AI Literacy has a significant positive effect on Self-Regulation Learning.
H4. Academic Motivation has a significant positive effect on Academic Misconduct.
H5. Self-Regulation Learning has a significant negative effect on Academic Misconduct.
H6. Academic Motivation has a significant negative effect on Self-Regulation Learning.
H7. Academic Motivation mediates the effect of AI Literacy on Self-Regulation Learning.
H8. Academic Motivation mediates the effect of AI Literacy on Academic Misconduct.
H9. Self-Regulation Learning mediates the effect of AI Literacy on Academic Misconduct.

The research model based on these hypotheses is illustrated in Fig. 1.


Fig. 1.

Research hypothesis model

4.3. Methodology

4.3.1. Sample
Hancock and Feng’s (2026) nmax calculator was applied to evaluate whether the sample size was sufficient for SEM. Assuming a minimum standardized path coefficient of γ = 0.20 and moderate multicollinearity among predictors (ρc = 0.30), the required minimum sample size is 213. Considering an anticipated longitudinal attrition rate of 20% across the three waves of data collection, consistent with prior three-wave AI literacy research (Liu et al., 2026), the final required sample size at T1 will be at least 267 participants to ensure a fully matched, valid sample of no fewer than 213 by T3.

4.3.2. Demographics
A total of X university students from various universities in China willingly participated in this study.

4.3.3. Measures
To measure the level of student’ AI literacy, Zhao et al.’s (2022) scale was AI literacy. The scale included 20 items that sought to collect information on four separate dimensions of student’ AI literacy: Knowing and Understanding AI (KUAI), Applying AI (AAI), Evaluating AI Application (EAIA), and AI Ethics (AIE).

Students' academic motivation was measured using items adapted from the MSLQ (Pintrich et al., 1993). The MSLQ was developed to measure the types of learning strategies and academic motivation used by students. The scale has eight items assessing both the intrinsic and extrinsic learning motivation of students. Some of the items for each sub-scale are: ‘I choose assignments that I can learn from even if they don't guarantee a good grade’ (intrinsic motivation) and ‘I want to get better grades in this class than most of the other students’ (extrinsic motivation). The MSLQ has been used among several groups of students with adequate validity and reliability (Chow & Chapman, 2017; Duncan & McKeachie, 2005; Erturan Ilker et al., 2014; Segura-Robles et al., 2021).

Students' SRL was assessed using adapted items from the SRLS (Manganelli et al., 2015). The SRLS has 15 items measuring five sub-dimensions: knowledge extraction (KE); knowledge networking (KN); knowledge practice (KP); knowledge critique (KC); and knowledge monitoring (KM). Some of the items for each sub-dimension are: ‘I make summaries of the most important things that I do’ (KE); ‘I look for connections between the different subjects that I study’ (KN); ‘I always repeat the most important concepts to learn them better’ (KP); ‘I try to develop my idea about the things that I study’ (KC); and ‘I try to be sure to understand well what I am studying’ (KM). The scale has provided adequate construct validity and internal consistency (Manganelli et al., 2015). The study also reported a high reliability coefficient (α = 0.842) for the SRL inventory.

SRLSs were assessed using the Motivated Strategies for Learning Questionnaire (MSLQ), a widely used instrument to measure self-regulated learning behaviors in university students (Broadbent, 2017). The SRLS dimensions include resource management, motivational beliefs, metacognitive knowledge, and cognitive engagement. Resource management assesses how students organize and manage learning resources, with five items, such as, “I collaborate with a group of friends to discuss AI technology”. Motivational beliefs measure students’ intrinsic motivation and goals for learning, with five items, including, “If I can, I want to do better than most of my classmates in my AI technology”. Metacognitive knowledge evaluates students’ awareness and regulation of their own learning processes, with four items, including, “If I get confused in learning AI technology, I use other methods to learn the technology”. Cognitive engagement reflects the degree of mental effort students invest in learning, with four items, such as, “When AI applications or products give materials, I develop my own ideas”.

To assess GenAI-SRL, we adapted items from questionnaires used by Lai and Gu (2011) and Lai et al. (2024) to reflect how learners engage in SRL with GenAI tools in out-of-class contexts. Six items were selected to measure this construct. An example item reads, “When using GenAI tools for English learning outside the classroom, I constantly monitored my learning progress.”

SRL is measured using a scale adapted from (Hong et al., 2015). The scale includes three dimensions, each assessed with three items: goal setting (e.g., “I try to analyze my weaknesses across diﬀerent courses and set goals to address them”), performance monitoring (e.g., “I always check whether my studying approaches meet the need of improving test performance”), and pursuing goals (e.g., “To achieve the learning goal, I will adopt a new learning approach to study”).

Learning Motivation utilizes Huang and Derakhshan's (2025) adapted scale with basic items (7 items).

4.3.4. Data collection
Data for this study were collected using a three-wave longitudinal tracking design. A self-reported method was employed to survey students' AI literacy, academic misconduct, conceptions of assessment, and academic integrity at three time points. The research team implemented strategies such as securing college support, providing guidance, and offering appropriate incentives to effectively control attrition rates. To reduce common method bias associated with self-reported data, no identifying information will be collected across the three waves. Participants are provided with private spaces to complete the questionnaires, sufficient time for completion, and assurance that the data would be used solely for research purposes, thereby ensuring anonymity, confidentiality, and data validity. Sample attrition in this study was primarily due to invalid responses. Invalid questionnaires were excluded based on criteria such as substantial missing data, patterned responses, abnormal completion time, or illogical answers.

This study employs a time-lagged research design for data collection and conducted three waves of questionnaire surveys to reduce the potential influence of common method bias to some extent (Yu et al., 2021).

The interval between each wave of data collection is two months. Each questionnaires will be distributed and collected on-site through an online survey platform. To ensure longitudinal matching across the three waves of data collection, participants will be assigned a unique anonymous identification number (ID), which was retained in T2 and T3 to ensure rigor and traceability.

During data processing, only questionnaires that are successfully matched across all three waves and fully complete are retained for analysis. Responses that could not be matched longitudinally or contained missing data were excluded. Based on the anticipated attrition rate, the final valid, fully matched sample retained across all three waves is expected to meet or exceed the required minimum sample size of 213 participants determined by the nmax approach. Finally, we use a three-wave time-lagged design to keep a temporal separation between predictors and outcomes (Podsakoff et al., 2012).

4.3.5. Data Analysis Procedure
The study employee a structural equation modelling (SEM) approach using RStudio (version 2026.07.1). Data are collected via an online survey and analyzed using RStudio software. RStudio will be used to analyze the data through a Structural Equation Modelling (SEM) approach, including the measurement model, structural model, and Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA). 

First, the variables are examined for outliers using z-values. To describe the data, we utilize the “psych” and “dplyr” packages (Revelle, 2026; Wickham et al., 2014). For the main analysis, which involves Structural Equation Modeling (SEM), we will employ the “lavaan” package and the “semPlot” package (Epskamp, 2015; Revelle, 2026). The Lavaan package will be used to define the measurement model and to conduct multigroup CFA and main effects SEM models, while the Modsem package will be used to test the multigroup interaction SEM model (Rosseel, 2012; Slupphaug et al., 2025). Model fits are evaluated with the robust comparative fit index (CFI), robust root mean square error of approximation (RMSEA), and standardized root mean square residual (SRMR).

CFA will be conducted with initial data collected from students to assess the structural or factorial validity of the Questionnaire. CFA is chosen because of its unique ability to explore the causal relationships among latent and observed variables in pre-defined, theory-derived models (Tavakol & Wetzel, 2020). CFA was conducted from the lavaan package in R (Rosseel, 2012). Before conducting CFA, data screening procedures will be conducted, including the examination of missing data, outliers, and univariate and multivariate normality.

SEM will be conducted through the following steps: model specification, model identification, model estimation, model testing, and model modification (Schumacker & Lomax, 2015). The model is specified and identified based on the conceptual framework outlined in the literature section. A bootstrapping method with robust maximum likelihood estimation will be used for model estimation. Robust maximum likelihood estimation with bootstrapped standard errors was selected, rather than PLS-SEM, because this combination maintains stable and unbiased parameter estimates even at moderate sample sizes, without the interpretive limitations associated with PLS-based composite modeling (Schumacker & Lomax, 2015). Initially, the measurement model estimations will confirm that all factor loadings are significant. Subsequently, model fit indices will be examined. We use Chi-square, CFI, TLI, RMSEA, and SRMR as fit indices. For a good model fit, CFI and TLI values should be 0.90 or above, while RMSEA and SRMR values should be below 0.08 (Schumacker & Lomax, 2015). The mediation analysis using structural equation modeling (SEM) with the lavaan package in RStudio is utilized to examine the direct, indirect, and total effects. After evaluating the path coefficients, the results will be reported.




References

Al-Abdullatif, A. M. (2024). Modeling teachers’ acceptance of generative artificial intelligence use in higher education: The role of AI literacy, intelligent TPACK, and perceived trust. Education Sciences, 14(11), 1209. https://doi.org/10.3390/educsci14111209
Al-Abdullatif, A. M., & Alsubaie, M. A. (2024). ChatGPT in learning: Assessing students’ use intentions through the lens of perceived value and the influence of AI literacy. Behavioral Sciences, 14(9), 845. https://doi.org/10.3390/bs14090845
Almatrafi, O., Johri, A., & Lee, H. (2024). A systematic review of AI literacy conceptualization, constructs, and implementation and assessment efforts (2019–2023). Computers and Education Open, 6, 100173. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeo.2024.100173
An, X., Chai, C. S., Li, Y., Zhou, Y., Shen, X., Zheng, C., & Chen, M. (2023). Modeling English teachers’ behavioral intention to use artificial intelligence in middle schools. Education and Information Technologies, 28(5), 5187–5208. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-022-11286-z
Baig, M., & Paparo, J. (2026). A preliminary investigation of intentions to engage in academic misconduct using generative artificial intelligence tools. Teaching in Higher Education, 1–19. https://doi.org/10.1080/13562517.2026.2663440
Bećirović, S., Augustín, M., Mattoš, B., & Dančo, J. (2026). Uncovering structural relationships between AI literacy, AI ethics, AI problem-solving, and self-regulated learning. Discover Computing, 29(1), 152. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10791-026-10042-y
Brown, G. T. L. (2022). Student Conceptions of Assessment: Regulatory Responses to Our Practices. ECNU Review of Education, 5(1), 116–139. https://doi.org/10.1177/20965311211007869
Brown, G. T. L., & Wang, Z. (2016). Understanding Chinese university student conceptions of assessment: Cultural similarities and jurisdictional differences between Hong Kong and China. Social Psychology of Education, 19(1), 151–173. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11218-015-9322-x
Burgsteiner, H., Kandlhofer, M., & Steinbauer, G. (2016). IRobot: Teaching the basics of artificial intelligence in high schools. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 30(1). https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v30i1.9864
Carolus, A., Augustin, Y., Markus, A., & Wienrich, C. (2023). Digital interaction literacy model – conceptualizing competencies for literate interactions with voice-based AI systems. Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence, 4, 100114. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2022.100114
Casal-Otero, L., Catala, A., Fernández-Morante, C., Taboada, M., Cebreiro, B., & Barro, S. (2023). AI literacy in K-12: A systematic literature review. International Journal of STEM Education, 10(1), 29. https://doi.org/10.1186/s40594-023-00418-7
Celik, I. (2023). Towards intelligent-TPACK: An empirical study on teachers’ professional knowledge to ethically integrate artificial intelligence (AI)-based tools into education. Computers in Human Behavior, 138, 107468. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2022.107468
Chung, K., Kim, S., Jang, Y., Choi, S., & Kim, H. (2025). Developing an AI literacy diagnostic tool for elementary school students. Education and Information Technologies, 30(1), 1013–1044. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-024-13097-w
Ding, A.-C. E., Shi, L., Yang, H., & Choi, I. (2024). Enhancing teacher AI literacy and integration through different types of cases in teacher professional development. Computers and Education Open, 6, 100178. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeo.2024.100178
Epskamp, S. (2015). semPlot: Unified Visualizations of Structural Equation Models. Structural Equation Modeling: A Multidisciplinary Journal, 22(3), 474–483. https://doi.org/10.1080/10705511.2014.937847
Hancock, G. R., & Feng, Y. (2026). Nmax and the quest to restore caution, integrity, and practicality to the sample size planning process. Psychological Methods, 31(1), 174–199. https://doi.org/10.1037/met0000776
He, J., & Wang, J. (2026). Impact of AI Literacy on Self-Efficacy Among Student Translators: Serial Mediating Roles of Self-Regulated Learning and Technology Acceptance. IEEE Access, 14, 42173–42184. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2026.3675004
Huang, F., & Derakhshan, A. (2025). Learning Motivation and Digital Literacy in AI Adoption for Self‐Regulated English Learning. European Journal of Education, 60(4), e70254. https://doi.org/10.1111/ejed.70254
Kandlhofer, M., Steinbauer, G., Hirschmugl-Gaisch, S., & Huber, P. (2016). Artificial intelligence and computer science in education: From kindergarten to university. 2016 IEEE Frontiers in Education Conference (FIE), 1–9. https://doi.org/10.1109/FIE.2016.7757570
Kong, S.-C., Cheung, W. M.-Y., & Zhang, G. (2023). Evaluating an artificial intelligence literacy programme for developing university students’ conceptual understanding, literacy, empowerment and ethical awareness. Educational Technology & Society, 26(1), 16–30.
Laupichler, M. C., Aster, A., Haverkamp, N., & Raupach, T. (2023). Development of the “scale for the assessment of non-experts’ AI literacy” – an exploratory factor analysis. Computers in Human Behavior Reports, 12, 100338. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chbr.2023.100338
Liang, J.-C., Hwang, G.-J., Chen, M.-R. A., & Darmawansah, D. (2023). Roles and research foci of artificial intelligence in language education: An integrated bibliographic analysis and systematic review approach. Interactive Learning Environments, 31(7), 4270–4296. https://doi.org/10.1080/10494820.2021.1958348
Liu, D., Li, W., Lu, G., Ma, Z., Jing, J., Qiu, H., Li, K., Xu, X., & Chen, C. (2026). Dynamic changes and relationships among AI Literacy, job crafting, and career growth in new nurses in the AI era: A multicenter three-wave longitudinal study. Nurse Education Today, 167, 107237. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nedt.2026.107237
Long, D., & Magerko, B. (2020). What is AI literacy? Competencies and design considerations. Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, 1–16. https://doi.org/10.1145/3313831.3376727
Lu, K., Zhu, J., Pang, F., & Shadiev, R. (2024). Understanding the relationship between colleges students’ artificial intelligence literacy and higher order thinking skills using the 3P model: The mediating roles of behavioral engagement and peer interaction. Educational Technology Research and Development. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11423-024-10434-1
Montebello, M. (2018). AI injected e-learning (Vol. 745). Springer International Publishing. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-67928-0
Ng, D. T. K., Leung, J. K. L., Chu, K. W. S., & Qiao, M. S. (2021a). AI Literacy: Definition, Teaching, Evaluation and Ethical Issues. Proceedings of the Association for Information Science and Technology, 58(1), 504–509. https://doi.org/10.1002/pra2.487
Ng, D. T. K., Leung, J. K. L., Chu, S. K. W., & Qiao, M. S. (2021b). Conceptualizing AI literacy: An exploratory review. Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence, 2, 100041. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2021.100041
Ng, D. T. K., Su, J., Leung, J. K. L., & Chu, S. K. W. (2023). Artificial intelligence (AI) literacy education in secondary schools: A review. Interactive Learning Environments, 1–21. https://doi.org/10.1080/10494820.2023.2255228
Perry, A. H., Rettinger, D. A., Stephens, J. M., Anderman, E. M., McTernan, M. L., Tatum, H., McNally, D., Cullen, C., & Bertram Gallant, T. (2026). From institutional climate to moral attitudes: Examining theoretical models of academic misconduct. Ethics & Behavior, 36(3), 199–216. https://doi.org/10.1080/10508422.2025.2514577
Pinski, M., & Benlian, A. (2023). AI literacy—Towards measuring human competency in artificial intelligence. https://hdl.handle.net/10125/102649
Podsakoff, P. M., MacKenzie, S. B., & Podsakoff, N. P. (2012). Sources of Method Bias in Social Science Research and Recommendations on How to Control It. Annual Review of Psychology, 63(1), 539–569. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-psych-120710-100452
Revelle, W. (2026). psych: Procedures for Psychological, Psychometric, and Personality Research (Version 2.6.5) [Computer software]. https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/psych/index.html
Rosseel, Y. (2012). lavaan: An R Package for Structural Equation Modeling. Journal of Statistical Software, 48(2). https://doi.org/10.18637/jss.v048.i02
Schiavo, G., Businaro, S., & Zancanaro, M. (2024). Comprehension, apprehension, and acceptance: Understanding the influence of literacy and anxiety on acceptance of artificial Intelligence. Technology in Society, 77, 102537. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techsoc.2024.102537
Schumacker, R. E., & Lomax, R. G. (2015). A Beginner’s Guide to Structural Equation Modeling: Fourth Edition (0 ed.). Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9781315749105
Shi, J., Liu, W., & Hu, K. (2025). Exploring How AI Literacy and Self-Regulated Learning Relate to Student Writing Performance and Well-Being in Generative AI-Supported Higher Education. Behavioral Sciences, 15(5), 705. https://doi.org/10.3390/bs15050705
Shomotova, A., Husain, S., & Elsayary, A. (2025). Validation of the GenAI Usage Scale (GAIUS) and the role of demographics in academic dishonesty in higher education. Innovations in Education and Teaching International, 1–18. https://doi.org/10.1080/14703297.2025.2603622
Slupphaug, K. S., Mehmetoglu, M., & Mittner, M. (2025). modsem: An R Package for Estimating Latent Interactions and Quadratic Effects. Structural Equation Modeling: A Multidisciplinary Journal, 32(4), 717–729. https://doi.org/10.1080/10705511.2024.2417409
Stephens, J. M. (2018). Bridging the Divide: The Role of Motivation and Self-Regulation in Explaining the Judgment-Action Gap Related to Academic Dishonesty. Frontiers in Psychology, 9, 246. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2018.00246
Stephens, J. M. (2019). Natural and Normal, but Unethical and Evitable: The Epidemic of Academic Dishonesty and How We End It. Change: The Magazine of Higher Learning, 51(4), 8–17. https://doi.org/10.1080/00091383.2019.1618140
Stephens, J. M., Absolum, K., Adam, L. A., Blickem, C. J., Gilliver-Brown, K. E., Hart, D. E., Kelly, J., Olsen, W., & Ulrich, N. (2024). Academic Misconduct Among Undergraduates Across Aotearoa: Insights and Implications for Policy and Practice. New Zealand Journal of Educational Studies, 59(1), 321–338. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40841-024-00315-9
Su, J., Ng, D. T. K., & Chu, S. K. W. (2023). Artificial Intelligence (AI) Literacy in Early Childhood Education: The Challenges and Opportunities. Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence, 4, 100124. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2023.100124
Su, J., & Yang, W. (2024). Artificial Intelligence and Robotics for Young Children: Redeveloping the Five Big Ideas Framework. ECNU Review of Education, 7(3), 685–698. https://doi.org/10.1177/20965311231218013
Wang, B., Rau, P.-L. P., & Yuan, T. (2023). Measuring user competence in using artificial intelligence: Validity and reliability of artificial intelligence literacy scale. Behaviour & Information Technology, 42(9), 1324–1337. https://doi.org/10.1080/0144929X.2022.2072768
Wang, D., Wang, Q., & Zhang, S. (2026). Latent profiles of AI literacy among K-12 students: Predictors and links to self-regulated learning. Frontiers in Psychology, 17, 1834851. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2026.1834851
Wang, K., Cui, W., & Yuan, X. (2025). Artificial Intelligence in Higher Education: The Impact of Need Satisfaction on Artificial Intelligence Literacy Mediated by Self-Regulated Learning Strategies. Behavioral Sciences, 15(2), 165. https://doi.org/10.3390/bs15020165
Wang, X., & Zhang, L. J. (2026). Fostering generative AI-supported self-regulated learning (GenAI-SRL) in informal digital language learning through literacy and interactions: A two-stage PLS-SEM-ANN approach. ReCALL, 1–17. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0958344026100524
Wickham, H., François, R., Henry, L., Müller, K., & Vaughan, D. (2014). dplyr: A Grammar of Data Manipulation (p. 1.2.1) [Dataset]. https://doi.org/10.32614/CRAN.package.dplyr
Wong, G. K. W., Ma, X., Dillenbourg, P., & Huan, J. (2020). Broadening artificial intelligence education in K-12: Where to start? ACM Inroads, 11(1), 20–29. https://doi.org/10.1145/3381884
Wu, D., Chen, M., Chen, X., & Liu, X. (2024). Analyzing K-12 AI education: A large language model study of classroom instruction on learning theories, pedagogy, tools, and AI literacy. Computers and Education.
Yim, I. H. Y., & Su, J. (2024). Artificial intelligence (AI) learning tools in K-12 education: A scoping review. Journal of Computers in Education. https://doi.org/10.1007/s40692-023-00304-9
Zhao, A., Brown, G. T. L., & Meissel, K. (2020). Manipulating the consequences of tests: How Shanghai teens react to different consequences. Educational Research and Evaluation, 26(5–6), 221–251. https://doi.org/10.1080/13803611.2021.1963938
Zhao, L., Wu, X., & Luo, H. (2022). Developing AI literacy for primary and middle school teachers in China: Based on a structural equation modeling analysis. Sustainability, 14(21), 14549. https://doi.org/10.3390/su142114549


1

